<!-- PAGE: 1 -->

A Comparative Investigation of
Broadcast Frameworks, Service
Availability, and Time Transfer
Performance in PPP-B2b, HAS,
and MADOCA-PPP
Runzhi Zhang, Rui Tu, Jihai Zhang, and Xiaochun Lu
The precise point positioning (PPP) technique has approximately 99% for both GPS and Galileo users. Further-
been used in the calculations of international atomic more, the MADOCA-PPP service achieves an impressive PPP
time (TAI) links for decades. PPP depends on ex- availability of 99.99% for GPS users. In the time transfer re-
ternal precise satellite orbit, clock offset, and bias products sults, where the National Time Service Center (NTSC) serves
to correct satellite-specific errors. In recent years, the emer- as the central node linking international GNSS service (IGS)
gence of real-time precise satellite products broadcast via stations, time comparison errors for all three services fluctu-
satellites has facilitated research and applications of PPP in ate within ±0.5 ns, even with a baseline length extending up
positioning and time transfer. These precise satellite prod- to 2631 km. Notably, the newly released MADOCA-PPP dem-
ucts are provided through the PPP services of navigation onstrates the highest time transfer accuracy, attributed to its
satellite systems, including the BeiDou global navigation high-precision satellite clock offset products. As a result, time
satellite system (BDS) PPP-B2b, the European Galileo high ac- users can select appropriate services to support continuous,
curacy service (HAS), and the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System stable, and reliable real-time time transfer at the sub-nano-
(QZSS) Multi-GNSS advanced orbit and clock augmentation- second level, based on the local continuity performance of
PPP (MADOCA-PPP). In contrast to real-time precise satellite the three services and with consideration of their broadcast
products provided over the Internet, the bandwidth limita- frameworks, decoding complexity, and respective advan-
tions of satellite broadcasts necessitate the segmentation of tages and limitations.
complete precise products into various message types for
sequential transmission. Users must accurately match and Development and Broadcast of High-
reconstruct these message segments to reliably restore the Precision GNSS Satellite Products
complete product, thereby ensuring the continuity of PPP The global navigation satellite system (GNSS) is essential
time transfer. Moreover, the coverage and availability of PPP for positioning, navigation, and timing (PNT) applications.
supported by these satellite products directly influence the GNSS carrier phase time transfer using precise point posi-
effectiveness of time transfer. Consequently, a comparative tioning (PPP) [1] has been incorporated into the calculations
investigation of broadcast frameworks, service availability, of international atomic time (TAI) links by the International
and time transfer performance was conducted to assist time Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM), owing to the excep-
users in selecting the suitable services and addressing the tionally low measurement noise associated with carrier phase
challenges associated with precise product recovery. The in- observations [2]. The PPP technique, in addition to employ-
vestigation evaluated the accuracy of the recently released ing observations from a GNSS receiver, depends on externally
MADOCA-PPP for time transfer. The analysis indicates that provided high-precision satellite products. Initially, real-time
the PPP-B2b service employs shorter message lengths and satellite products were generated by the international GNSS
incorporates error correction mechanisms to ensure the accu- service (IGS) analysis centers and made accessible via the
racy of product transmission. In contrast, the MADOCA-PPP Internet [3]. The emergence of real-time precise satellite prod-
service provides a more straightforward message matching ucts has advanced both research and applications in real-time
process, while the HAS service accomplishes global cover- PPP time transfer, achieving accuracy at the sub-nanosecond
age through a complex encoding and transmission scheme. level [4]–[6].
However, this complexity increases the challenges associated In recent years, navigation systems have begun broad-
with product recovery for users. Moreover, the PPP avail- casting precise satellite products directly via their satellites
ability of the PPP-B2b service for BDS users in China and its to address the challenges posed by limited network avail-
surrounding areas is recorded at 99.93%. In comparison, the ability in PPP services. These include the Quasi-Zenith
HAS service demonstrates a comparable PPP availability of Satellite System (QZSS) centimeter level augmentation
November 2025 IEEE Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine 61
1094-6969/25/$25.00©2025IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: HANGZHOU DIANZI UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 22,2026 at 06:29:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

<!-- PAGE: 2 -->

service (CLAS) [7], the BeiDou global navigation satel- PPP Model
lite system (BDS) PPP-B2b [8], the European Galileo high The PPP technique enables high-precision absolute position-
accuracy service (HAS) [9], and the QZSS Multi-GNSS ing by utilizing a single GNSS receiver to receive satellite
advanced orbit and clock augmentation-PPP (MAD- signals, while employing models, empirical formulas, and
OCA-PPP) [10]. In particular, the Galileo HAS launched parameter estimation methods to handle delay errors in the
its initial global services in January 2023, while the QZSS propagation paths between the GNSS receiver and the satel-
MADOCA-PPP began its operational phase in April 2024. lites [14]. Assuming that the satellite s is observed by the GNSS
The accuracy of the satellite-based precise products has receiver r, the raw pseudorange P and carrier phase L observa-
been thoroughly analyzed and is sufficient to meet the re- tion equations can be expressed as follows [14],[15]:
quirements for real-time PPP [11],[12], and these products
have already been applied in precise positioning. Con- Ps (cid:31)(cid:27)s(cid:30)dt (cid:29)dts(cid:30)Ts(cid:30)(cid:26) (cid:28)Is (cid:30)d (cid:29)ds(cid:30)(cid:25)s (1)
r,j r r r j r,i r,j j r,j
currently, research on real-time PPP time transfer using
satellite-based products, such as PPP-B2b and HAS prod- Ls (cid:31)(cid:27)s(cid:30)dt (cid:29)dts(cid:30)Ts(cid:29)(cid:26) (cid:28)Is (cid:30)(cid:25)s(Ns (cid:30)b (cid:29)bs)(cid:30)(cid:24)s (2)
r,j r r r j r,i j r,j r,j j r,j
ucts, is steadily advancing [11],[13]. However, real-time
f2
PPP time transfer imposes stringent requirements not only (cid:31) (cid:30) i (3)
j f2
on the accuracy of satellite products but also on their con- j
tinuous and complete reception. where: f represents the carrier signal frequency, with sub-
In contrast to real-time precise satellite products provided scripts i and j denoting the frequency indices; ρs refers to the
r
via the Internet, satellite broadcasts are limited by bandwidth, receiver-satellite geometric distance; dt r and dts represent the
necessitating the segmentation of the complete precise prod- receiver and satellite clock offsets, respectively, in meters; Ts
r
ucts into various message types for sequential transmission. refers to the slant tropospheric delay; the ionospheric delay
Users must match and reconstruct these message segments to Is can be decomposed into a frequency-dependent scaling
r,j
restore the complete product. The encoding and dissemina- factor γ j and an ionospheric delay I r s ,i at the frequency i; ε and
tion schemes of precise products in these three services differ, ξ represent the measurement noise; d and b represent the un-
each presenting distinct advantages and limitations. More- calibrated code delay (UCD) and uncalibrated phase delay
over, the PPP coverage and availability of these products play (UPD), respectively, which are corrected using code bias and
a critical role in ensuring the stability and reliability of PPP phase bias products; and λ and N represent the wavelength of
time transfer [11]. Notably, with the MADOCA-PPP service the carrier phase observation and its integer ambiguity, respec-
entering its operational phase in April 2024, there is a lack of tively. The relativistic effect, Sagnac effect, antenna windup
literature regarding its application in PPP time transfer. Conse- effect, and antenna phase center offset can be corrected using
quently, a comprehensive comparative analysis can assist time models and empirical formulas [14].
users in selecting the suitable service for their specific require-
ments while addressing any challenges that may arise during Dual-Frequency Satellite-based PPP Model
implementation. These satellite-based PPP services provide precise satellite
In our contribution, we conduct an in-depth comparison products, including orbit, clock offset, code bias, and phase
of the encoding and broadcasting processes of BDS PPP-B2b, bias products. The broadcast framework of these services is
Galileo HAS, and QZSS MADOCA-PPP, focusing on the ad- illustrated in Fig. 1. Satellites transmit ephemeris data and
vantages of each service and the critical factors to consider corresponding corrections to deliver precise satellite orbit
during product recovery on the user side. Subsequently, we and clock offset products. The code bias and phase bias prod-
analyze PPP continuity from the users’ perspective, as con- ucts are used to correct the UCD and UPD, respectively [16].
tinuity is a key determinant of the stability and reliability of
PPP time transfer. Lastly, we present the results of PPP time
transfer for all three services, with particular emphasis on
QZSS MADOCA-PPP, for which specific time transfer re-
GNSS
s A i a n u d g b lt e r s s t i t e a r h f i a a l t i e v e n d e g t r i c n o e o s d o m t u f o p b c r t e a i P e o ri P n n s P o d t n o t o i m c t o h u f e e m t t h m r e e a n o n b t d s e r e f d o e l a i r i n d n i g s c t a p m h s r e t e o t f v e h r x i a o d i m s d e t d s i e n , w a g f n o o d l l r i l k t o p e s w r r o o a e c t f d u e t s r b h s e y e - . Satellites Obs B e i r a v s a P t E io r p o n h d m s e u , e m c r t i e s s r C is o , rrections E D ph a e ta m D P e e r r e c is p o C r d o i o n c r g e re s c s t i i n o g ns
t
t
h
h
r
e
e
r
e
e
s
s
e
u
r
l
v
ts
ic
o
e
f
s .
P
W
P
e
P
a
t
n
im
al
e
y z
tr
e
a
c
n
o
s
v
fe
er
r,
a
a
g
n
e
d
a n
c
d
o n
a
c
v
l
a
u
i
d
la
e
b i
w
li
i
t
t
y
h
, p
a
r e
s
s
u
e
m
n
-
t
Antenna
Ephe
r
S
e
a
la
te
t
l
e
li
d
te
,
-
a
re
n
la
d
t e
A
d
tm
, R
o
e
s
c
p
e
h
iv
e
e
ri
r
c
-
Error Correction
mary of our findings.
Parameter Estimation
GNSSReceiver
Method ReceiverClock Offset
The basic observation equations of PPP and its primary errors
PPPProcedure
are initially presented, followed by an introduction to the PPP
time transfer model. Fig. 1. Principle of satellite-based PPP.
62 IEEE Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine November 2025
Authorized licensed use limited to: HANGZHOU DIANZI UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 22,2026 at 06:29:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

<!-- PAGE: 3 -->

Currently, while code bias products are available across all delay was estimated as a random walk process. The receiver
three services, the PPP-B2b and HAS services do not provide clock offset dt was estimated as white noise.
r,ij
accessible phase bias products. The resulting differences in
modeling will be highlighted in this section. Users primarily PPP Time Transfer
focus on recovering precise products, correcting various er- The receiver clock offset dt estimated by PPP is the devia-
r,ij
rors, and estimating unknown parameters. tion of the local time t from the product reference time t .
loc ref
Considering the frequency-dependent nature of iono- By differencing the estimated receiver clock offsets between
spheric delay, the dual-frequency (DF) ionospheric-free (IF) two stations within the time link, the reference time can be
PPP model, which eliminates the ionospheric delay effects, af- eliminated, enabling a direct differentiation of local time, ex-
ter applying the satellite product corrections, can be written pressed as:
as follows:
(cid:31)t(cid:30)dt (cid:29)dt (cid:30)(t (cid:29)t )(cid:29)(t (cid:29)t )(cid:30)t (cid:29)t
Ps (cid:31)(cid:28) (cid:30)Ps (cid:29)(cid:27) (cid:30)Ps A,ij B,ij loc,A ref loc,B ref loc,A loc,B
r,ij ij r,i ij r,j (8)
(cid:31)(cid:26)s(cid:29)dt (cid:29)Ts(cid:29)(cid:25)s (4)
r r,ij r r,ij
where ∆t represents the time comparison results for the time
Ls (cid:31)(cid:28) (cid:30)Ls (cid:29)(cid:27) (cid:30)Ls link.
r,ij ij r,i ij r,j
Taking the post-processed PPP time link as the reference,
(cid:31)(cid:26)s(cid:29)dt (cid:29)Ts(cid:29)(cid:25)sNs (cid:29)(cid:24)ss (5)
r r,ij r ij r,ij r,ij the error sequence of real-time PPP time comparisons is ob-
(cid:21) (cid:19) (cid:19) (cid:31) ij (cid:29) f2 f (cid:28) i 2 f2 ,(cid:30) ij (cid:29)(cid:28) f2 f (cid:28) j 2 f2 t t a o i n q e u d a . n T ti h fy e t s h ta e n p d r a e r c d is d io e n v i o a f t i t o h n e ( t S im TD e ) c o o f m th p e a s r e is o er n r , o a r n s d is i u s s e e x d -
(cid:19) i j i j pressed as:
(cid:19) dt (cid:29)dt (cid:27)((cid:31) (cid:26)d (cid:27)(cid:30) (cid:26)d ) (6)
(cid:19) r,ij r ij r,i ij r,jj
(cid:20) (cid:19) (cid:19) (cid:25) i s j N r s ,ij (cid:29)(cid:31) ij (cid:26)(cid:25) i s(N r s ,i (cid:27)b r,i (cid:28)b i s)(cid:27)(cid:30) ij (cid:26)(cid:25) j s(N r s ,j (cid:27)b r,j (cid:28)bs jj ) s(cid:31) n 1 (cid:30)1 (cid:29) i n (cid:31)1 (x i (cid:30)x)2 (9)
(cid:19) (cid:25)sNs (cid:29)(cid:25)sNs (cid:28)((cid:31) (cid:26)d (cid:27)(cid:30) (cid:26)d )
ij r,ij ij r,ij ij r,i ij r,j where x represents the sequence of time comparison errors; n
(cid:19) i
(cid:18) (cid:19) (cid:24) r s=(cid:24) r s+(cid:23)(cid:23) r s(cid:26)(cid:22)(cid:22) x represents the number of epochs in the error sequence; and x is
the mean value of the sequence.
where: Ps and Ls represent the IF pseudorange and carrier
r,ij r,ij
phase observations, respectively; P represents the pseudor- Comparison of Broadcast Frameworks
ange observation corrected by code bias products; α and β Currently, all three services provide precise satellite orbits,
are the IF coefficients; dt represents IF receiver clock off- clock offset, and code bias products, while the MADOCA-PPP
r,ij
set to be estimated in the PPP solution; ρs can be expressed service additionally provides phase bias and ionospheric cor-
r
as a linear combination of the calculated geometric distance rections. All products are provided in the form of state space
ρs, the receiver coordinates vector increments ∆x, and the representation (SSR) [20] correction. Orbit and clock offset cor-
r
unit satellite-receiver vector µµs; λsNs represents the am- rections refine the ephemeris to recover precise satellite orbit
r ij r,ij
biguity resulting from the DF IF combination; and λsNs and clock offset, while code bias and phase bias are employed
ij r,ij
represents the float ambiguity to be estimated. λ i s j N r s ,ij en- to correct hardware delays in pseudorange and carrier phase
compasses both the combined ambiguity term λsNs and observations.
ij r,ij
the receiver-related hardware delay ((cid:31) (cid:29)d (cid:28)(cid:30) (cid:29)d ) which However, notable differences exist in the encoding of sat-
ij r,i ij r,j
is associated with the estimated receiver clock offset dt . ellite products into real-time binary data streams and their
r,ij
When phase bias products are available, the estimated am- broadcasting frameworks. The encoding and broadcasting of
biguity can be resolved as an integer ambiguity [17]. In the PPP-B2b, HAS, and MADOCA-PPP are illustrated in Fig. 2,
absence of phase bias products, it remains estimated as a Fig. 3, and Fig. 4, respectively. The PPP-B2b products are
float ambiguity. Thus, the estimated parameter vector X can
be written as:
X(cid:31)(cid:30)(cid:26)x dt Ts (cid:25)N(cid:28) (7) PPP-B2b Message
(cid:29) r,ij r (cid:27)
Orbit Clock Code Bias
where λN represents the estimated ambiguity vector, com-
Ephemeris (IODE)
posed of λsNs , whose dimension is determined by the IOD SSR Decode and transmit
ij r,ij IODP Message type 1 (Satellite mask) IOD SSR Clock
number of observed satellites. Consequently, a minimum of
Message type 2 (Orbit correction) Refined satellite position
five satellites with precise products is required to obtain a PPP
Message type 3 (Code bias) Corrected pseudorange
solution [11]. In this study, ambiguities were estimated as float
values. The station coordinates were estimated as constants. Message type 4 (Clock correction) Refined satellite clock
IOD Corr
The tropospheric dry delay was corrected using the Saas-
tamoinen model [18] and the GMF model [19]. The zenith wet Fig. 2. PPP-B2b message structure.
November 2025 IEEE Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine 63
Authorized licensed use limited to: HANGZHOU DIANZI UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 22,2026 at 06:29:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

<!-- PAGE: 4 -->

decoded into four message types, with compatibility main-
HAS Message tained through the issue of data (IOD). In contrast, the HAS
products encode message types (MT) 1 to 3 as MT1-slow,
Clock Orbit Code Bias
while clock offset corrections are encoded separately as MT1-
Encoded page C (cid:258) Encoded page C fast in Section 7.6 of its interface control document (ICD) [9]. 1 k
MT1 Header Mask Orbit block Bias block The MADOCA-PPP service encodes orbit, clock offset, and
bias products into six message types for broadcasting via L6E,
MT1 Header Clock block while ionospheric corrections are transmitted through L6D.
Encoded page C 1 (cid:258) Encoded page C i In contrast to the PPP-B2b service, which encodes message
types categorically, the MADOCA-PPP service transmits these
encoded message types at fixed pattern, delivering a complete
set of products every 30 sec-
onds in Section 4.1 of its ICD
[10]. This fixed transmission
pattern simplifies message
matching for users, as it
only requires confirming
whether the continuously
decoded products belong
to the same data set. Thus,
the MADOCA-PPP service
reduces the complexity of
message matching for users.
While the PPP-B2b service
minimizes message length,
it enhances transmission
efficiency, facilitating the in-
clusion of error correction
coding.
In terms of service
broadcasting, the PPP-B2b
service transmits correc-
tions via three geostationary
earth orbit (GEO) satellites,
operating as a regional PPP
64 IEEE Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine November 2025
timsnart
dna
edoceD
Ephemeris (IODE) Clock
Decode and transmit
Refined satellite position
Corrected pseudorange
Corrected carrier phas e
Refined satellite clock
Fig. 3. HAS message structure.
MADOCA-PPP L6E Message
Clock Orbit Code Bias Phase Bias
Decode
Clock ST1 ST2 ... ST2 ST3
Sub type 1 (ST1) - Mask
Ephemeris (IODE)
ST7 ST3 ... ST3
Sub type 2 (ST2) - Orbit
Refined satellite position Layout
Sub type 3 (ST3) - Clock ST4 ... ST4 ST3 ... ST3
Transmit
Refined satellite clock
Sub type 4 (ST4) - Code bias
ST3 ... ST3
Corrected pseudorange
Sub type 5 (ST5) - Phase bias
Corrected carrier phase ST5 ... ST5 ST3 ... ST3
Sub type 7 (ST7) - URA
Correction for ionosphere ST3 ... ST3
MADOCA-PPP L6D Message type 1 (MT1) - Coverage Message (Ionospheric Layout
MT1 MT2 ... MT2 Message type 2 (MT2) - Correction correction) Transmit
Fig. 4. MADOCA-PPP message structure.
Table 1 – Detailed differences in the PPP-B2b, HAS, and MADOCA-PPP services
Item BDS PPP-B2b Galileo HAS QZSS MADOCA-PPP
Currently supported GPS, GLONASS, Galileo,
GPS, BDS GPS, Galileo
systems QZSS
Satellite orbit, clock, code
Currently supported Satellite orbit, clock, code Satellite orbit, clock, code
bias, phase bias, ionospheric
corrections bias bias
correction
Satellites and Internet Satellites and Internet
Broadcast channel Satellites
(RTCM) (Compact SSR)
BDS GEO satellites (C59, All operational Galileo All operational QZSS
Carrier satellites
C60, C61) satellites satellites
QZSS L6E and L6D (1278.75
Carrier signal BDS B2b (1207.14 MHz) Galileo E6-B (1278.75 MHz)
MHz)
GPS LNAV, GLONASS
Corrected ephemeris BDS CNAV1, GPS LNAV Galileo I/NAV, GPS LNAV GLONASS-K(M), Galileo I/
NAV, QZSS LNAV
BeiDou Navigation Satellite
Time system Galileo System Time (GST) QZSS Time (QZSST)
System Time (BDT)
Authorized licensed use limited to: HANGZHOU DIANZI UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 22,2026 at 06:29:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

<!-- PAGE: 5 -->

service since product estimates primarily rely on China’s was set to support PPP solutions. The proportion of epochs
tracking stations. Moreover, the binary data stream for the with sufficient corrections relative to the total number of ep-
PPP-B2b service broadcasted by the GEO satellites remains ochs was considered as an indicator of service availability.
consistent. The MADOCA-PPP estimates its products using a The interpolation results for the average number of satellites
global observation network [12] and broadcasts them through with corrections and PPP availability for the PPP-B2b, HAS,
QZSS satellites. Additionally, its products are also dissemi- and MADOCA-PPP services are presented in Fig. 6, Fig. 7 and
nated via the Internet. In contrast to the PPP-B2b service, the Fig. 8, respectively. The statistical results for the PPP-B2b ser-
MADOCA-PPP service features a longer message length and vice (20° N~55° N, 75° E ~ 150° E), HAS, and MADOCA-PPP
does not permit switching between QZSS satellites within the service (60° S~60° N, 70° E ~ 160° W) are summarized in Table
30-second reception period for a set of satellite products. Con- 2. Due to the limitations of the observation network generating
versely, the HAS service provides global coverage due to its the products, PPP-B2b availability is primarily concentrated in
distinct broadcasting scheme. China and its surrounding regions, with BDS service availabil-
To enhance reception efficiency, the Galileo HAS employs ity reaching up to 99.93%. In contrast, the Galileo HAS offers
the high-parity vertical reed-solomon (HPVRS) encoding global coverage, providing an average of 8.55 GPS satellites
scheme, fragmenting a set of products through an encoding
matrix and distributing the fragments across different Gali-
leo satellites [21]. Users need to receive a sufficient number
of the fragments, which can come from the same or different
Galileo satellites, and these are restored into HAS products
via HPVRS decoding to optimize user reception. Addi-
tionally, the complex decoding process for HAS products
is supported by C/C++ programming packages [22]. Ta-
ble 1 summarizes the detailed differences in broadcasting
among the three services. Users may preselect a suitable ser-
vice by considering the specific features of each broadcast
framework, the complexity of decoding, and the associated
advantages and drawbacks.
Service Coverage and Availability
Observations from 180 globally distributed stations, sampled
Fig. 5. Geographical distribution of stations. Blue dots represent stations
at 30-second intervals from day of year (DoY) 278 to 282 in
evaluated for the HAS and MADOCA services, green dots for stations assessed
2024, were used to analyze the PPP coverage and availability across all three services, and red dots for stations evaluated for the PPP-B2b
supported by the three services. The distribution of these sta- service.
tions is illustrated in Fig. 5,
where 45 stations are specif-
ically selected for analyzing
the regional PPP-B2b ser-
vice, represented by red and
green dots. The PPP-B2b
and HAS products were
cashed using Septentrio
Mosaic-X5 and SINO K803
receivers, each equipped
with their respective re-
ceiving modules, while the
MADOCA-PPP data were
obtained from the official
online archive (https://
sys.qzss.go.jp/dod/en/ar-
chives.html). The analysis
of PPP service coverage was
conducted by evaluating
the average number of sat-
ellites with corrections. A
minimum threshold of five
satellites with corrections
November 2025 IEEE Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine 65
setilletaS
fo
rebmuN
50°N
25°N
0°
BDS 25°S BDS
50°S
50°N
25°N
0°
25°S
GPS GPS
50°S
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
ytilibaliavA
50°N
25°N
0°
25°S
50°S
50°N
25°N
0°
25°S
50°S
50°E 100°E 150°E 50°E 100°E 150°E
Fig. 6. Average number of satellites with corrections and PPP availability of the PPP-B2b service.
Authorized licensed use limited to: HANGZHOU DIANZI UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 22,2026 at 06:29:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

<!-- PAGE: 6 -->

and 8.44 Galileo satellites with corrections contributing to MADOCA-PPP provides services for the Asia-Pacific region
PPP calculations at each epoch on the user side. This results in through QZSS satellites, with an average of 10.06 corrected GPS
PPP availability rates of 98.84% and 99.17%, respectively. The satellites and an availability rate of 99.99%. However, the num-
ber of corrected GLONASS
satellites is relatively low,
while the corrected Galileo
satellites and their avail-
ability are comparable to
those of HAS. In summary,
the real-time products of all
three services exhibit good
continuity and provide
precise products for a suf-
ficient number of satellites,
meeting the requirements
of real-time PPP. Relative
to Fig. 6, Fig. 7, and Fig. 8,
high-availability services
could be selected at both
user stations to enable con-
tinuous, stable, and reliable
real-time PPP time transfer.
Time Transfer
Results
The results sequences of ap-
plying the three services to
PPP time comparison are
presented and analyzed. To
validate the accuracy of PPP
time transfer across the three
services, it is essential to ac-
count for potential satellite
shortages that may cause
anomalies in estimated re-
ceiver clock offset. Due to
the varying PPP availability
of the three services, en-
suring enough satellites is
critical for accurately assess-
ing time transfer accuracy.
In this experiment, PPP-B2b
time transfer utilizes both
the GPS and BDS systems,
while HAS and MADOCA-
PPP time transfers are based
66 IEEE Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine November 2025
setilletaS
fo
rebmuN
BDS
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 0.92 0.94 0.96 0.98 1
ytilibaliavA
80°N 80°N
40°N 40°N
0° 0°
40°S Galileo 40°S Galileo
80°S 80°S
80°N 80°N BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS
40°N 40°N
0° 0°
40°S GPS 40°S GPS
80°S 80°S
120°W 0° 120°E 120°W 0° 120°E
Fig. 7. Average number of satellites with corrections and PPP availability of the HAS service.
setilletaS
fo
rebmuN
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 0.84 0.88 0.92 0.96 1
ytilibaliavA
80°N 80°N
40°N 40°N
0° 0°
40°S Galileo 40°S Galileo
80°S 80°S
80°N 80°N
40°N 40°N
0° 0°
40°S GPS 40°S GPS
80°S 80°S
80°N 80°N
40°N 40°N
0° 0°
40°S GLONASS 40°S GLONASS
80°S 80°S
120°W 0° 120°E 120°W 0° 120°E
Fig. 8. Average number of satellites with corrections and PPP availability of the MADOCA-PPP service.
Table 2 – Average number of satellites with corrections and service availability
BDS PPP-B2b Galileo HAS QZSS MADOCA-PPP
Item
GPS BDS GPS Galileo GPS Galileo GLONASS
Average number
6.79 8.53 8.55 8.44 10.06 7.79 5.77
of satellites
Service
96.47% 99.93% 98.84% 99.17% 99.99% 98.90% 81.16%
availability
Authorized licensed use limited to: HANGZHOU DIANZI UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 22,2026 at 06:29:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

<!-- PAGE: 7 -->

on the GPS and Galileo systems. To compare the time transfer
accuracy of the three services, three user stations were selected
within the overlapping coverage area of the high-availability
services provided by all three. The National Time Service Cen-
ter (NTSC), a TAI time-keeping laboratory, serves as the central
node, linking IGS stations (ULAB and USUD) to form time
links for time comparison accuracy analysis. The geographic
distribution of the stations and the baseline lengths of the two
time links are shown in Fig. 9.
With reference to GeoForschungZentrum (GFZ) post-pro-
cessed precise products GBM, the time comparison errors
for the NTSC-ULAB and NTSC-USUD time links, based on
real-time products, are presented in Fig. 10 and Fig. 11, with
baseline lengths of 1506 km and 2631 km, respectively. Even
with the longer baseline of 2631 km, the time comparison er-
rors across all three services fluctuated within a narrow range
of ±0.5 ns. The STD values of the time comparison errors are Fig. 9. Geographical distribution of stations. The NTSC (red) at the center
summarized in Table 3. When stable and continuous PPP time connects other stations (blue) to form time comparison link.
transfer is performed, the comparison accuracy is affected by
the baseline length. The MADOCA-PPP time transfer results
exhibit smaller error fluctuations, while the time comparison
accuracy using the PPP-B2b and HAS products is compara-
ble. This can be attributed to the more precise satellite clock
offset products provided by the MADOCA-PPP service [12].
For the NTSC-ULAB time link, the STD value of the time com-
parison error for MADOCA-PPP was 78 ps, compared to 121
ps for PPP-B2b and 148 ps for HAS. Therefore, provided that
high availability is guaranteed for all three services, they can
support real-time continuous, stable, and reliable PPP time
comparisons at the sub-nanosecond level, with time com-
parison errors remaining within ±0.5 ns, even over a baseline
length of up to 2631 km.
It should be emphasized that the selection of the three
time stations was exclusively for the purpose of compar-
ing the time comparison accuracy of the three real-time PPP
services. The user stations involved in time transfer may be lo-
cated anywhere. Furthermore, the feasibility of Galileo HAS
for global stable time transfer has been demonstrated, with
baseline lengths extending up to 12295 km and time transfer
errors fluctuating within ±1 ns. Considering that both MAD-
OCA-PPP and PPP-B2b are regional services, the status and
characteristics of the real-time PPP services supported in dif-
ferent regions are different. To facilitate continuous and stable
PPP time transfer at the sub-nanosecond level, time users
are advised to select suitable high-continuity real-time ser-
vices with reference to Fig. 6, Fig. 7 and Fig. 8, taking into
careful consideration the broadcast framework architecture,
decoding complexity, as well as the respective advantages and
limitations of each service.
Conclusions
The PPP technique has been used in TAI time link calculations
for decades. Recently, the dissemination of real-time precise
orbit and clock offset products via satellites has greatly en-
hanced both research and implementation of real-time PPP,
reducing dependence on network connectivity. However,
November 2025 IEEE Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine 67
)sn(
rorre
nosirapmoc
emiT
1.5
MADOCA-PPP 1.0
HAS
0.5 PPP-B2b
0.0
–0.5
–1.0
–1.5
278 279 280 281 282 283
Day of Year (2024)
Fig. 10. Time comparison error series for time link NTSC-ULAB from DoY 278
to 282 in 2024.
)sn(
rorre
nosirapmoc
emiT
1.5
MADOCA-PPP
1.0 HAS
0.5 PPP-B2b
0.0
–0.5
–1.0
–1.5
278 279 280 281 282 283
Day of Year (2024)
Fig. 11. Time comparison error series for time link NTSC-USUD from DoY 278
to 282 in 2024.
Table 3 – STD values of time comparison
error (unit: ps)
Model
PPP-B2b HAS MADOCA-PPP
Time link
NTSC-ULAB 121 148 78
NTSC-USUD 133 159 111
Authorized licensed use limited to: HANGZHOU DIANZI UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 22,2026 at 06:29:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

<!-- PAGE: 8 -->

due to bandwidth limitations, satellite broadcasting requires via NTRIP,” in Proc. ION GNSS 20th Int. Technical Mtg. Satellite
precise products to be segmented and encoded for transmis- Division, 2007, pp. 1992–1998.
sion, necessitating users to recover the complete product on [4] Y. L. Ge, S. X. Chen, T. Wu, C. M. Fan, W. J. Qin et al., “An
their end. This study conducts a comprehensive comparison analysis of BDS-3 real-time PPP: Time transfer, positioning, and
of the broadcast encoding, service coverage, availability, and tropospheric delay retrieval,” Measurement, vol. 172, 108871,
time transfer results for BDS PPP-B2b, Galileo HAS, and QZSS Feb. 2021.
MADOCA-PPP. [5] J. H. Zhang, S. W. Dong, H. B. Yuan, W. Guang, Y. Zhang et al.,
BDS provides regional PPP services to China and its sur- “Study on PPP time comparison based on BeiDou-3 new signal,”
rounding areas via three GEO satellites, while Galileo offers IEEE Instrum. Meas. Mag., vol. 25, pp. 30–40, Aug. 2022.
global PPP services via its operational satellites through [6] D. Lyu, F. Zeng, X. Ouyang, and H. Zhang, “Real-time clock
the HPVRS scheme. Additionally, QZSS supports regional comparison and monitoring with multi-GNSS precise point
PPP services across the Asia-Pacific region through its sat- positioning GPS, GLONASS and Galileo,” Advances in Space
ellite constellation. Both PPP-B2b and MADOCA-PPP Research, vol. 65, no. 1, pp. 560–571, Jan. 2020.
segment their products by message types; MADOCA-PPP [7] “Quasi-Zenith Satellite System Interface Specification Centimeter
employs a fixed transmission pattern, simplifying message Level Augmentation Service (IS-QZSS-L6-005),” Cabinet Office,
matching process for users. PPP-B2b, on the other hand, Government of Japan, Sep. 2022. [Online]. Available: https://
shortens message length and incorporates error correction qzss.go.jp/en/technical/download/pdf/ps-is-qzss/is-
to ensure transmission accuracy. To improve user recep- qzss-l6-005.pdf?t=1728961376804.
tion efficiency, HAS adopts the HPVRS encoding scheme, [8] “BeiDou Navigation Satellite System Signal in Space Interface
which adds complexity to product reception and recovery Control Document Precise Point Positioning Service Signal
for users. PPP-B2b (Version 1.0),” China Satellite Navigation Office, Jul.
Regarding PPP service coverage and availability, PPP- 2020. [Online]. Available: beidou.gov.cn/xt/gfxz/202008/
B2b achieves a PPP availability of 99.93% for BDS users P020200803362062482940.pdf.
within the region (20° N to 55° N, 75° E to 150° E). Con- [9] “Galileo High Accuracy Service Signal-In-Space Interface
versely, HAS demonstrates comparable global coverage Control Document (HAS SIS ICD),” EUSPA, May 2022. [Online].
and service availability for GPS and Galileo users, with an Available: https://www.gsc-europa.eu/sites/default/files/
average of approximately 8.5 satellites and nearly 99% avail- sites/all/files/Galileo_HAS_SIS_ICD_v1.0.pdf.
ability. MADOCA-PPP, covering the region between 60° S [10] “Quasi-Zenith Satellite System Interface Specification Multi-
and 60° N and 70° E to 160° W, reports an average of 10.06 GNSS Advanced Orbit and Clock Augmentation - Precise Point
corrected GPS satellites and 99.99% availability. The real- Positioning (IS-QZSS-MDC-003),” Cabinet Office, Government
time products of all three services demonstrate adequate of Japan, Aug. 2024. [Online]. Available: https://qzss.go.jp/
continuity and offer precise products for a sufficient number en/technical/download/pdf/ps-is-qzss/is-qzss-mdc-003.
of satellites, thereby satisfying the requirements of real-time pdf?t=1728962149329.
PPP. In the future, a software solution will be developed to [11] R. Z. Zhang, R. Tu, X. C. Lu, Z. M. He, W. Guang et al., “Initial and
enable simultaneous decoding of HAS, PPP-B2b, and MAD- comprehensive analysis of PPP time transfer based on Galileo
OCA-PPP products for real-time PPP time transfer. As these high accuracy service,” GPS Solutions, vol. 28, 94, Mar. 2024.
products continue to evolve, the application of PPP with am- [12] K. Kawate, Y. Igarashi, H. Yamada, K. Akiyama, M. Okeya et al.,
biguity resolution technique to real-time time transfer will “MADOCA: Japanese precise orbit and clock determination
also be explored and integrated. tool for GNSS,” Advances in Space Research, vol. 71, no. 10, pp.
3927–3950, May 2023.
Acknowledgment
[13] R. Z. Zhang, L. Li, X. Q. Li, H. J. Ma, G. W. Xiao et al., “Research
The authors acknowledge the IGS and IGMAS for providing on quad-frequency PPP-B2b time transfer,” IEEE Instrum. Meas.
observations and extend their gratitude to the GFZ for sup- Mag., vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 57–62, Feb. 2024.
porting precise satellite products. This study was supported [14] J. Kouba and P. Héroux, “Precise point positioning using IGS orbit
by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant and clock products,” GPS Solutions, vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 12–28, 2001.
No. 41974032; 42274019). [15] F. Zhou, D. A. Dong, M. R. Ge, P. Li, J. Wickert et al.,
“Simultaneous estimation of GLONASS pseudorange
References
inter-frequency biases in precise point positioning using
[1] J. Zumberge et al., “Precise point positioning for the efficient and undifferenced and uncombined observations,” GPS Solutions,
robust analysis of GPS data from large networks,” J. Geophysical vol. 22, no. 19, Jan. 2018.
Research–Solid Earth, vol. 102, pp. 5005–5017, Mar. 1997. [16] X. X. Li, X. Li, Y. Q. Yuan, K. K. Zhang, and X. H. Zhang, “Multi-
[2] G. Petit, “The TAIPPP pilot experiment,” in Proc. 2009 IEEE Int. GNSS phase delay estimation and PPP ambiguity resolution:
Frequency Control Symp., Joint 22nd European Frequency and Time GPS, BDS, GLONASS, Galileo,” J. Geodesy, vol. 92, no. 6,
Forum, 2009, pp. 116–119. Jun. 2018.
[3] G. Weber, L. Mervart, Z. Lukes, C. Rocken, and J. Dousa, “Real- [17] M. R. Ge, G. Gendt, H. Rothacher, C. Shi, and J. Liu, “Resolution
time clock and orbit corrections for improved point positioning of GPS carrier-phase ambiguities in Precise Point Positioning
68 IEEE Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine November 2025
Authorized licensed use limited to: HANGZHOU DIANZI UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 22,2026 at 06:29:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

<!-- PAGE: 9 -->

(PPP) with daily observations,” J. Geodesy, vol. 82, no. 7, China. His primary research focuses on real-time GNSS time
Jul. 2008. transfer and high-precision positioning.
[18] J. Saastamoinen, “Atmospheric correction for the troposphere and
the stratosphere in radio ranging Satellites,” The Use of Artificial Rui Tu (turui-2004@126.com) is a Professor at the College of
Satellites for Geodesy, vol. 15, pp. 247–251, Jan. 1972. Geodesy and Geomatics, Shandong University of Science and
[19] J. Boehm, A. Niell, P. Tregoning, and H. Schuh, “Global mapping Technology, Qingdao, Shandong, China. He received a Ph.D.
function (GMF): A new empirical mapping function based on degree from the the German Research Centre for Geosciences
numerical weather model data,” Geophysical Research Letters, vol. (GeoForschungsZentrum, GFZ) and worked as a Professor at
33, pp. 3–6, Apr. 2006. the National Time Service Center of the Chinese Academy of
[20] G. Wübbena, A. Bagge, and M. Schmitz, “RTK networks based on Sciences until 2024. His main research interests include GNSS
Geo++® GNSMART- Concepts, implementation, results,” in Proc. precise point positioning, RTK positioning, and application in
14th Int. Technical Mtg. Satellite Division, 2001, pp. 368–378. geosciences.
[21] I. Fernandez-Hernandez, T. Senni, D. Borio, and G. Vecchione,
“High-parity vertical Reed-Solomon codes for long GNSS high- Jihai Zhang (zhangntsc@126.com) is a Research Associate at
accuracy messages,” Navigation, vol. 67, no. 2, pp. 365–378, Jun. the National Time Service Center of Chinese Academy of Sci-
2020. ences in Xi’an, Shaanxi, China. He holds a Ph.D. degree from
[22] R. Z. Zhang, R. Tu, X. and C. Lu, “HASPPP: an open-source University of Chinese Academy of Sciences (2020). His main
Galileo HAS embeddable RTKLIB decoding package,” GPS research fields are high-precision time transfer and GNSS time
Solutions, vol. 28, 169, Aug. 2024. difference monitoring.
Runzhi Zhang (zhangrunzhi@ntsc.ac.cn) is pursuing a Ph.D. Xiaochun Lu (luxc@ntsc.ac.cn) is a Professor at the National
degree at the University of Chinese Academy of Sciences and Time Service Center of Chinese Academy of Sciences in Xi’an,
conducting his research at the Key Laboratory of Precision Shaanxi, China, and a Ph.D. Supervisor at the University of
Navigation and Timing Technology, National Time Service Chinese Academy of Sciences. Her research primarily focuses
Center (NTSC), Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xi’an, Shaanxi, on the application of GNSS time transfer.
November 2025 IEEE Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine 69
Authorized licensed use limited to: HANGZHOU DIANZI UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on May 22,2026 at 06:29:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.