<!-- PAGE: 1 -->
Available online at www.sciencedirect.com
ScienceDirect
Advances in Space Research 75(2025)7212–7225
www.elsevier.com/locate/asr
BDS-3/GPS uncombined real-time PPP with PPP-B2b precise
products: Modeling and its long-term performance evaluation
Wujiao Daia,⁎ , Ning Liua , Zhehao Zhanga, Chengpan Tangb, Zhixue Zhangc,
Yufei Yangc, Lin Pana
a School of Geosciences and Info-Physics, Central SouthUniversity,Changsha410083,China
b Shanghai Astronomical Observatory, Chinese Academy ofSciences,Shanghai200030,China
cBeijingSatelliteNavigationCenter,Beijing100094,China
Received 9 December 2024; received in revised form 17February2025;accepted3March2025
Available online 5 March2025
Abstract
Through PPP-B2b real-time precise products, BDS-3 can provide the real-time precise point positioning (PPP) service without relying
on the Internet for users in China and its surrounding regions. In this study, the BDS-3/GPS uncombined real-time PPP model with PPP-
B2b precise products is constructed. In the constructed model, a receiver clock offset parameter is introduced for each satellite system to
account for the frequent changes of GPS satellite clock datums, and a compensation parameter is also introduced for each satellite to
mitigate the effects of initial systematic bias of satellite clock offsets. In addition, the long-term positioning performance of BDS-3/GPS
real-time PPP with PPP-B2b precise products is evaluated using the observations from six stations spanning 196 days. The results show
that the average convergence time can be 7.5 and 10.2 min (with a standard deviation (STD) of 3.9 and 6.4 min)overtheanalysisperiod
instaticandkinematicmodes,respectively,whichisshortenedby41.3%and61.4%comparedwiththetraditionalmodelthatignores
theinfluenceoffrequentlyswitcheddatumsandinitialsystematicbiasofsatelliteclockoffsets.Theaveragepositioningaccuracycanbe
4.6,0.9,and2.5cm(withaSTDof1.3,0.7,and1.7cm),and6.4,3.3,and9.5cm(withaSTDof2.3,1.5,and3.1cm)ineast,north,and
updirectionsinstaticandkinematicmodes,respectively.TheseresultsindicatethattheBDS-3/GPSreal-timePPPwithPPP-B2bprecise
products canprovide stableand reliable real-time high-precision navigationandpositioning service.
© 2025 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar
technologies.
Keywords: BDS-3 PPP-B2b; Uncombined model; Satellite clock datums; Initial systematic bias;Real-timeprecisepointpositioning;Long-termperfor-
mance
1. Introduction can determine the three-dimensional (3D) coordinates
within the International Terrestrial Reference Framework
Precise Point Positioning (PPP) is an absolute position- (ITRF) through comprehensively considering and correct-
ing technique that uses code and carrier phase observations ing various errors (Malys and Jensen, 1990; Zumberge
from a Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) recei- et al., 1997; Kouba and He´roux, 2001). However, the
ver, along with precise satellite orbit and clock products real-time PPP (RT-PPP) typically requires IGS precise
generated by the International GNSS Service (IGS). PPP products in real time v ia the Internet, known as the Real-
Time Service (RTS) (Guo et al. 2024). Consequently, it
⁎ Corresponding author. cannot achieve real-time high-precision positioning with-
E-mail address: wjdai@csu.edu.cn (W. Dai). out the Internet access.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asr.2025.03.005
0273-1177/© 2025 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar
technologies.
<!-- PAGE: 2 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
As one of the services provided by BDS-3, the precise gence, respectively, and the B1C/B2a ionospheric-free (IF)
positioning service (i.e., PPP-B2b) is a kind of open and combination showed better positioning accuracy than the
free high-precision service provided for users by the BDS- B1I/B3I IF combination. Geng et al. (2022) reported that
3 Geostationary Orbit (GEO) satel lites, which broadcast the RT-PPP with PPP-B2b service could achieve the root
precisesatelliteorbit,clockoffset,anddifferentialcodebias mean square (RMS) statistics of 3D positioning errors of
(DCB) corrections to users in China and its surrounding 21.3 cmforBDS-onlycaseand18.2cmforGPS/BDSinte-
areas(Yang et al.2022). Because PPP-B2b service is broad- gratedcaseincoastalareas,respectively.Zhou et al. (2023)
cast through GEO satellites, users can achieve real-time discovered that the positioning accuracies of dual-
high-precision positioning without the Internet access. Cur- frequency static and kinematic RT-PPP based on PPP-
rently , the PPP-B2b service is widely used in some fields B2b service were better than 10 and 20 cm, respectively.
such as integrated navigation (Xiao et al. 2023), earth- Wu et al. (2023) discovered that when using PPP-B2b cor-
quake source inversion (Zang et al. 2024), time trans fer rections, the positioning errors with a confidence level of
(Ge et al. 2023) and so on. 95 % for static stations, low-speed objects (such as vehicles
In PPP data processing, the precise satellite orbit and and ships) and high-kinematic airborne platforms using
clock products are indispensable. Additionally, the DCB BDS-3 single-system and BDS-3/GPS dual-system combi-
products are also crucial to improve the positioning perfor- nation were all less than 20 and 35 cm in the horizontal
mance of PPP. Currently, the PPP-B2b service only pro- and vertical directions after convergence, respectively.
vides corrections for BDS-3 and GPS satelli tes, but may These studies demonstrate that PPP-B2b service can pro-
provide the corrections of other GNSS constellations in vide decimeter-level positioning accuracy in the kinematic
the future. The IGS precise products are generated using mode.
hundreds of GNSS ground tracking stations distributed Most of the previous research about PPP-B2b employed
globally (Dash et al. 2024), and the accuracy of PPP-B2b only a few days of observation data (the maximum dura-
products is worse than that of IGS final products due to tion of the used data is one month) to evaluate RT-PPP
limitationsinthedistributionandquantityofreferencesta- performance, which makes it difficult to accurately repre-
tions (Tang et al. 2022). Benefitting from the inter-satellite sent the real-time positioning performance of PPP-B2b ser-
link (ISL), the accuracy of along-track component for the vice and provide effective advice for BDS-3 users.
BDS-3 orbit corrections in PPP-B2b is better than that of Moreover, most of the existed studies on PPP-B2b focused
GPS ones, but the corresponding accuracy of radial and on dual-frequency IF combined model, and the research on
cross-track components is comparable for them. However, undifferenced and uncombined (UDUC) multi-system inte-
the PPP-B2b orbit corrections are not as accurate as IGS grated RT-PPP still remains insufficient, especially in which
RTS products (Tao et al. 2021). Regarding the satellite the various biases have not been systematically investi-
clocks, the accuracy of clock corrections in PPP-B2b is gated. Given the prevalence of UDUC PPP, this paper
slightly worse than that of rapid products from aims to construct a BDS-3/GPS UDUC RT-PPP model
GeoForschungsZentrum (GFZ) (Zhang et al. 2022). Con- based on PPP-B2b service, considering the frequently
sidering the combined effects of PPP-B2b orbit and clock switched datums and the included initial systematic bias
errors, the residual Signal-in-Space Ranging Error (SISRE ) of PPP-B2b satellite clock offsets, in order to improve the
can be estimated to improve the performance of PPP-B2b positioning accuracy and accelerate the convergence speed
RT-PPP (Xu et al. 2023). In addition, the DCB in PPP- ofPPP-B2bRT-PPP.Thispaperisdividedintothefollow-
B2b is consistent with the DCB from IGS precise products ing parts. We firstintroduce the precise corrections broad-
and Time Group Delay (TGD) from broadcast ephemer- castbyPPP-B2bservice.Then,aBDS-3/GPSUDUCRT-
ides. The difference of DCB between PPP-B2b and IGS PPPmodelbasedonPPP-B2bserviceisconstructed.Next,
precise products is less than 2 ns, and the difference we present and discuss the results. Finally, we summarize
between PPP-B2b DCB and TGD is less than 0.15 ns the conclusions.
(Ren et al. 2021).
In recent years, there have been a lot of research on the 2. Precise corrections broadcast by PPP-B2b service
positioning performance of PPP-B2b. China Satellite Nav-
igation Office (CSNO) states in its official document that According to Interface Control Document (ICD) of
the PPP-B2b service of BDS-3 aims to provide users in PPP-B2b (CSNO 202 0), PPP-B2b service only broadcasts
China and its surrounding areas with positioning accura- BDS-3 and GPS corrections. As shown in Table 1, there
cies (with a confidence level of 95 %) of better than 30 are four types of corrections that users can receive and
and 60 cm in the horizontal and vertical directions for decode: satellite mask, satellite orbit correction and user
the BDS-3 single system, and of better than 20 and range accuracy index, DCB, and satellite clock correction,
40 cm in the horizontal and vertical directions for the with updating intervals of 48, 48, 48, and 6 s, respectively.
BDS-3/GPS dual-system after full convergence (CSNO For the corrections beyond these intervals, the data quality
2021). Xu et al. (2021) found that BDS-3 dual-frequency cannot be guaranteed. According to ICD, the PPP-B2b
kinematic RT-PPP can achieve the accuracy of 11 and information is used to correct the CNAV-1navigationmes-
17 cm inthehorizontalandverticaldirectionsafterconver- sagesofBDS-3B1CsignalandtheLNAVnavigationmes-
7213
<!-- PAGE: 3 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
Table 1
PPP-B2b informa tiontypes.
Type Type name Updating interval(s) Validate time(s) BDS-3 GPS
1 Satellite mask 48 –
2 Orbit correction and userrangeaccuracyindex 48 96
3 DCB 48 86,400 –
4 Satellite clockcorrection 6 12
sages of GPS L1/L2 signals, respectively. BDS-3 CNAV-1 observations. To be consistent, the reference of satellite
uses an 18-parameter model for orbit calculation, while positions is firstly transferred to the CoM, and then when
GPS L-NAV uses a 16-parameter model. It is worth noting using the observations of a certain frequency, the reference
that BDS-3 adopts the BDS Time (BDT) as the time refer- is trans ferred to the APC on that frequency. The corre-
ence when using PPP-B2b precise corrections and conduct- spondencebetweenAPCandCoMcanbeexpressedasfol-
ing RT-PPP data processing. During pre processing, it is lows (Montenbruck et al. 2015):
necessary to correct the 14-second offset with respect to
GPSTime(GPST).Meanwhile,BDS-3adoptstheBeiDou rG rG AT fG 1 2 aG fG 2 2 aG
CoM APC G fG 2 fG 2 PCO 1 fG 2 fG 2 PCO 2
Coordinate System (BDCS), whose definition complies 1 2 1 2
with the standards of the latest ITRF frame.
rC rC AT aC
CoM APC C PCO 3
The satellite mask contains 255 bits. When the bit is ‘‘1″, rG rG AT a G
APC j CoM G PCOj
it represents that the PPP-B2b information of the corre-
rC rC AT aC
sponding satellite is broadcast. In addition, because the APCj CoM C PCOj
other three corrections of PPP-B2b are designed for IF 2
combinations, it cannot be directly applied to the UDUC
where j denotes the frequen cy,C represents BDS-3, G rep-
RT-PPP model. Therefore, the methods of using PPP-
resents GPS, r and r denote the satellite position of
B2b information based on the UDUC model are provided APC CoM
APC (of L1/L2 IF combination for GPS, and ofB3Isignal
as follows.
for BDS-3, respectively) and CoM, respectively, r
APC j
denotes the satellite position of APC on frequency j, AT
2.1. Orbit correc tion C
and AT represent the attitude matrix of BDS-3 and GPS
G
The orbit corrections in the PPP-B2b include the com- satellites, respectively, fG and fG denote the carrier fre-
1 2
ponents of the orbit correction vector dO in the radial, quency of L1 and L2 signals, respectively, aG and
PCO 1
along-track, and cross-track (RAC) directions. The orbit aG denote the GPS PCO corrections of L1 and L2 sig-
PCO 2
corrections are used to calculate the satellite position cor- nals, respectively, and aC represents the BDS-3 PCO
rectionvectordX, which is then combined with the satellite PCO 3
corrections of B3I signal.
position vector X calculated from the broadcast
broadcast
ephemerides to obtain the precise satellite position vector
2.2. Clock correction
X , that is:
orbit
X X dX 1 The clock corrections in PPP-B2b are provided as the
orbit broadcast
correction parameter relative to the broadcast satellite
where X denotes the precise satellite position corrected
orbit clocks. The application of these corrections can be
by the orbit corrections, X is the satellite position
broadcast expressed as:
calculated by the broadcast ephemerides, and dX repre-
sents the satellite orbit corrections, whose calculation t t C 0 3
method can refer to ICD of PPP-B2b. satellite broadcast c
It is worth noting that the reference of PPP-B2b orbit where t refers to the satellite clock offset calculated
broadcast
corrections is different from the widely used reference of by the broadcast ephemerides, t denotes the precise
satellite
IGS precise orbit products. For PPP-B2b, BDS-3 orbit cor- satellite clock offset corrected by clock corrections, c is
rections refer to the antenna phase center (APC) of B3I, the speed of light in vacuum, and C represents the clock
0
while GPS orbit corrections refer to the APC of L1/L2 corrections acquired from PPP-B2b message. It is noted
IF combination. However,IGSpreciseorbitproductsrefer that GPS clock offsets refer to L1/L2 IF combination,
tothecenterofmass(CoM).Therefore,inUDUCRT-PPP while BDS-3 clock offsets refer to B3I signal. As a result,
processing,itisnecessarytoapplytheantennaphasecenter the calculated precise satellite clock of GPS inevitably
offset (PCO) and variation (PCV) corrections from the assimilates the satellite code hardware delay of L1/L2 IF
ANTenna Exchange format (ANTEX) file (igs20.atx file) combination,whileBDS-3clockoffsetassimilatesthesatel-
to the calculated satellite positions and multi-frequency lite code hardware delay of B3I signal.
7214
<!-- PAGE: 4 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
2.3. DCB correction Because the recovered GPS and BDS-3 satellite clocks
with PPP-B2b message refer to the L1/L2 IF combination
In view that the satellite code hardware delay included and B3I signal, respectively, they wi llinevitablyabsorbthe
in the single-frequency code observations is inconsistent corresponding code hardware delay at the satellite. The
with the assimilated code hardware delay in the PPP-B2b formula can be expressed as:
precise satellite clock offsets, it is necessary to apply DCB
correctionstothecodeobservationstouniformthedatum,
Clks G OG Os G Clks G aG ds G bG ds G
a a a 12 1 12 2
that is: Clks C OC Os C Clks C ds C
a a a 3
l l DCB 4 6
sig sig sig
where l denotes the corrected code observat ionsofsignal with aG fG 2 fG 2 f G 2 and bG
sig 12 1 1 2 12
sig l sig represents the raw code observations, and DCB sig fG 2 fG 2 fG 2 where C refers to BDS-3, G refers
denotes the DCB corrections. For BDS-3, the satellite 2 1 2
clock offset refers to B3I signal, and DCB also refers to toGPS,aG and bG are the dual-frequency IF combinat ion
12 12
B3I signal. If users adopt other signals, the DCB correc- coefficients, fG and fG denote the carrier frequency of L1
1 2
tions broadcast in the PPP-B2b message can be directly and L2 signals, respectively, ds G and ds G are GPS satellite
1 2
applied to correct the code observations. code hardware delay of L1 andL2signals,respectively,and
However, the PPP-B2b message does not contain the ds C is BDS-3 satellite code hardware delay of B3I signal.
DCB corrections of GPS, and it is recommended that users 3
In GNSS RT-PPP, for a satellite observed by a receiver,
utilize the L1/L2 dual-frequency IF combined observa-
therearetwotypesofobservations,whichcanbeexpressed
tions. This is because the GPS clock offsets derived from
as follows:
PPP-B2b message refer to L1/L2 IF combination, and con-
tain the satellite code hardware delay of L1/L2 IF combi- Ps r G j qs r G cdtG r cdts G Ts r G lG j Is r G 1 dG r j ds j G e Ps r G j
nation. When using the calculated GPS clock offsets, the Ls G qs G cdtG cdts G Ts G lG Is G Ns G bG bs G e Ls G
r j r r r j r 1 r j r j j r j
GPS code hardware delay at the satellite will be eliminated Ps C qs C cdtC cdts C Ts C lC Is C dC ds C e Ps C
r j r r r j r 1 r j j r j
simultaneously. Actually, for dual-frequency UDUC RT- Ls C qs C cdtC cdts C Ts C lC Is C Ns C bC bs C e Ls C
r j r r r j r 1 r j r j j rj
PPP, the satelli te code hardware delay will be assimilated
7
by the ionospheric delay parameters when DCB correc-
tions are not applied, and thus the positioning results are where P and L represent code and carrier phase observa-
not affected. tions in meters, respectively, s and r denote a GNSS satel-
lite and a receiver, respectively, j denotes the frequency (j
3. BDS-3/GPS UDUC RT-PPP model based on PPP-B2b with a numerical value of 1 and 2 refers to L1 and L2 for
service GPS, respectively, while j with a numerical value of 1
and 3 refers to B1I and B3I for BDS-3, respectively), C
PPP-B2b service uses GNSS reference stations dis- denotes BDS-3, G denotes GPS, q
tributed throughout China to track satellites for observa- (q x xs 2 y ys 2 z zs 2) is the geometric
tion, and calculates precise satellite orbit, clock offset, r r r
distance from the receiver antenna phase center to the
and DCB corrections through ground operation control
satellite antenna phase center, x y z and xs ys zs rep-
systems. The derived corrections have regional and real- r r r
resent the 3D coordinates ofthereceiverandsatelliteinthe
timecharacteristics.Thereal-timeprecisesatelliteclockoff-
Earth-Centered Earth-Fixed (ECEF) frame, respectively,
sets typically comprise three parts (Mervart and Weber
cdt and cdts denote receiver clock offset and satellite clock
2011): r
offset, respectively, T is the slant tropospheric delay, l
Clks a O a Os a Clks 5 (l f2 f2 ) is the ionospheric delay facto r on frequency j
j 1 j
where s represents satellites, a denotes analysis centers, O j, f is the carrierfrequency,I is the slant ionospheric delay
a 1
represents the datum of satellite clock offsets, which is the on the first frequency, N is the phase ambiguity in units of
same for all satellites, Os represents the initial systematic meters, d and ds denote the receiver and satellite code
a r
bias introduced by initial satellite clock offsets, which is a hardware delay, respectively, b and bs denote the receiver
r
constant within a continuous arc, and Clks denotes the and satellite phase hardware delay, respectively,and e rep-
actual satellite clock offsets. The magni tude of initial sys- resents the observation noise including multipath effects.
tematic bias Os in the IGS final precise clock offset prod- When applying the corrections of PPP-B2b message, the
a
ucts is much small, and thus it can be neglected in the satellite clock datum, initial systematic bias and satellite
data processing. However, for satellite clock offsets in code hardware delay included in the satellite clock offsets
PPP-B2b, the influence of Os cannot be ignored. (see Equation (6)) will be introduced into the observation
a
7215
<!-- PAGE: 5 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
equations. Therefore, after linearizing the raw observa-
I represents the ionosphere delay that absorbs the code
1
tions, the widely used observation equations can be
hardware delay at the receiver for BDS-3 andatbothsatel-
expressed as:
lite and receiver for GPS, N denotes the phase ambiguity
ps G ls G x cdt G ms G Z lG I s G Os G that absorbs the phase and code hardware delay at both
r j r r r r j r 1 a
satellite an d receiver. Other error items, such as PCO,
ls r G j ls r G x cdt G r ms r G Z r lG j I s r G 1 N s r G j Os a G PCV, tropospheric dry delay (Saastamoinen 1972), phase
ps C ls C x cdt G ISBC G ms C Z lC I s C Os C wind-up effec t (Wu et al. 1993), relativistic effect (Ashby
r j r r r r r j r 1 a 2003), station displacement and so on, are assumed to be
ls C ls C x cdt G ISBC G ms C Z lC I s C N s C O sC corrected by precise products or empirical models.
r j r r r r r j r 1 r j a
The satellite clock datum is introduced to eliminate the
8
rank deficiency between receiver and satellite clock offsets
with during the real-time precise clock estimation (PCE), and
is the common item for all satellite clock offsets within a
cdt G cdtG aG dG bG dG OG
r r 12 r 1 12 r 2 a system.AsshowninEquation(9), during the RT-PPP pro-
ISBC G cdtC cdtG aC dC bC dC aG dG bG dG OC OG
r r r 13 r 1 13 r 3 12 r 1 12 r 2 a a cessing, the satellite clock datum of a selected system is
I s G Is G bG dG dG bG ds G ds G absorbed by the receiver clock parameter, and the differ-
r 1 r 1 12 r 1 r 2 12 1 2
I s C Is C bC dC dC ence of satellite clock datum between two systems is
r 1 r 1 13 r 1 r 3 absorbed by the ISB parameter. Thus, the satellite clock
N s r G j Ns r G j bG r j bs j G aG 12 lG j bG 12 dG r 1 ds 1 G bG 12 1 lG j dG r 2 ds 2 G datums introduced by satellite clock offsets do not affect
N s C Ns C bC bs C aC lC bC dC bC 1 lC dC dsC thepositionsolutions(Yao et al.2017). However, the satel-
r j r j r j j 13 j 13 r1 13 j r3 3
lite clock datum of GPS satellite clock offsets in the PPP-
9
B2b changes frequently, and the ISB parameter (usually
with aC fC 2 fC 2 f C 2 and bC fC 2 modeled as random-walk process) cannot well absorb the
13 1 1 3 13 3
difference of satellite clock datum between BDS-3 and
fC 2 fC 2 where p and l denote the observed- GPS. As a result, the positioning results will be negatively
1 3
minus-computed (OMC) observables of code and carrier affected. Therefore, it is necessary to estimate the receiver
phase, respectively, l is the unit vector from the receiver clock offset parameters (usually modeled as white noise
to the satellite; x refers to the position vector of the recei- process) separately for the BDS-3 and GP S systems. As
such,thesatelliteclockdatumsofBDS-3andGPSsatellite
ver, cdt denotes the receiver clock offset that assimilates
r clock offsets will be absorbed by the respective receiver
the receiver code hard ware delay and satellite clock datum
clockoffsetparameters.WhenapplyingPPP-B2bclockoff-
of GPS, ISB denotes the inter-system bias (ISB) between
set products, it is necessary to make appropriate modifica-
BDS-3 and GPS, which is the sum of inter-system differ-
tionsatthetraditionalUDUCRT-PPPobservationmodel,
ence of time scale, dual-frequency IF combined receiver
that is:
code hardware delay and satellite clock datum between
BDS-3 and GPS, m represents the wet map ping function, G s G
ps G ls G x cdt ms G Z lG I Os G
Z is the tropospheric zenith wet delay (ZWD)atthestation, r j r r r r j r 1 a
G s G s G
ls G ls G x cdt ms G Z lG I N Os G
r j r r r r j r 1 r j a
C s C
ps C ls C x cdt ms C Z lC I Os C
r j r r r r j r 1 a
C s C s C
ls C ls C x cdt ms C Z lC I N Os C
r j r r r r j r 1 r j a
10
with
G
cdt cdtG aG dG bG dG OG
r r 12 r 1 12 r 2 a 11
C
cdt cdtC aC dC bC dC OC
r r 13 r 1 13 r 3 a
G C
where cdt and cdt denote the GPS and BDS-3 receiver
r r
clock offset, respectively.
During the PPP-B2b real-time PCE, when a satellite
becomes visible in the Asian-Pacific region, an absolute
satellite clock offset should be first introduced. However,
the error of the introduced absolute satellite clock offset
Fig.1. Distribution of sixselectedMGEXstations. will result in the initial systematic bias Os in the real-time
a
7216
<!-- PAGE: 6 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
Table 2
Processing strategies ofRT-PPP.
Items Processing strategies
Frequency BDS-3: B1I, B3I; GPS: L1,L2
Elevation cut-offangle 10°
Sampling interval 30 s
Sampling Elevation-dependent weights
Estimator Kalman filter
Satellite orbit PPP-B2b products
Satellite clockoffset PPP-B2b products
DCB PPP-B2b products
Ionospheric delay Estimated as random-wal kprocess
Tropospheric delay ZWD is estimated as random-walk process, and Global Mapping Function
(GMF)isusedaswetmappingfunction
Receiver clockoffset Estimated as white noiseprocess
Phase ambiguity Estimated as float constants
Cycle slipdetection Geometry Free and Melbourne–Wu¨ bbenacombinations
Satellite PCO/PCV Corrected using IGS20.atx file
Station coordinate Estimated as constants in the static mode, and whitenoiseprocessinthekinematicmode
Fig. 2. RT-PPP positioning errors at POL2 station for ‘‘Clk +ISB”and Fig. 3. RT-PPP positioning errors at ULAB station for ‘‘Clk+ISB”and
‘‘TwoClk”models. ‘‘TwoClk”models.
precise satellite clock offsets(Zhang et al.2011). In the car- tions, this bias will reduce their accuracy. At the early stage
rier phase observation equation, this bias will be absorbed of RT-PPP processing, the positioning accuracy is primar-
by the phase ambiguity parameter to form a newambiguity ily determined by code observations, and their low accu-
parameter, which has no effect on the solutions of other racy will increase the convergence time of position
parameters (Chen et al. 2017). However, for code observa- solutions. To mitigate the influence of initial systematic
7217
<!-- PAGE: 7 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
Fig. 4. RT-PPP positioning errors at POL2 station for ‘‘Two Clk with Fig. 5. RT-PPP positioning errors at ULAB station for ‘‘Two Clk with
bias”and‘‘TwoClkwithoutbias”models. bias”and‘‘TwoClkwithoutbias”models.
bias, a compensation parameter needs to be set for the code where r denotes the compensation parameter of initial sys-
observation equation of each satellite. The initial system-
tematic bias, which is modeled as random-walk process,
atic bias is a constant within a continuous arc, but will
change significantly when the satellite is tracked again. At and N denotes the new phase ambiguity grouped with the
this time, the compensation parameter corresponding to initial systematic bias. To eliminate the rank deficiency of
the satellite should be initialized. Considering the effect of this model, a virtual observation equation that thecompen-
satellite clock datum and initial systematic bias of real- sation parameter of a selected satellite is equal to zero
time satellite clock offsets, the final BDS-3/GPS UDUC needs to be introduced for each system.
RT-PPP model based on PPP-B2b can be described as:
4. Results and discussion
G s G
ps G ls G x cdt ms G Z lG I rs G
r j r r r r j r 1
4.1. Experimental data and processing strategy
G s G s G
ls G ls G x cdt ms G Z lG I N
r j r r r r j r 1 r j
12
C s C In order to assess the positioning performance of the
ps C ls C x cdt ms C Z lC I rs G
r j r r r r j r 1 constructed BDS-3/GPS UDUC RT-PPP model based on
C s C s C PPP-B2b service, we choose six Multi-GNSS Experiment
ls C ls C x cdt ms C Z lC I N
r j r r r r j r 1 rj (MEGX) multi-frequency and multi-system stations for
with corres ponding experiments. The analysis period covers a
total of 196 days from day of year (DOY) 251 in 2023 to
rs G Os G
a DOY 81 in 2024. Fig. 1 shows the distribution of the
rs C Os C selected stations. Considering that all three BDS-3 satellites
a
s G s G 13 broadcasting PPP-B2b messages are GEO satellites with
N N Os G
r j r j a sub-satellite point of 80°E, 110.5°E and 114°E inlongitude,
s C s C all the selected stations are located in China and its sur-
N N Os C
r j r j a rounding area. Thus, these stations can receive PPP-B2b
7218
<!-- PAGE: 8 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
Fig. 6. RT-PPP positioning errors at CUSV stationbased on IGSRTS
Fig. 7. IF RT-PPP positioning errors at POL2 station for ‘‘Clk + ISB
andPPP-B2bservice.
without bias”,‘‘TwoClkwithoutbias”,and‘‘TwoClkwithbias”models.
messages and track sufficient BDS-3 and GPS satellites.
And the PPP-B2b products are decoded through the recei- 55.4, and 66.5 cm, and 24.5, 17.1, 46.5, and 55.2 cm, respec-
ver developed by Changsha Jinwei Integrated Circuit Co., tively. Under the ‘‘Two Clk” model, the corresponding
Ltd. The self-developed software is used in this paper, RMS statistics are reduced by 32.1 %, 65.9 %, 28.5 %,
whichalsodrawsonsomeopensoftware,suchasRTKLIB and 31.9 %, and 64.1 %, 51.5 %, 48.5 %, and 51.5 % to
software (Takasu 2013). And the processing strategies of 20.8, 7.0, 39.7, and 45.3 cm, and 8.8, 8.3, 23.9, and
RT-PPP are shown in Table 2. 26.8 cm, respectively. The figures show that the positioning
accuracies in the three directions under two different mod-
4.2. Impact of frequently switched satellite clock datum els are comparable after full convergence. However,dueto
some changes in the GPS satellite clock datum, the posi-
With the PPP-B2b message, the BDS-3/GPS UDUC tioning accuracy of the ‘‘CLK + ISB” model suddenly
RT-PPP model constructed in this paper sets one clock off- becomes worse many times even after full convergence,
set parameter for each system (hereinafter referred to as the making the positioning performance unstable and unreli-
‘‘Two Clk” model) to account for the frequent changes in able. In contrast, the ‘‘Two Clk” model effectively absorbs
GPS satellite clock datum. This is compared to the tradi- the changes in the GPS satellite clock datum, providing
tional RT-PPP model, which sets one receiver clock offset more stable positioning accuracy without sudden changes.
parameter and one ISB parameter (hereinafter referred to
as the ‘‘Clk + ISB” model). 4.3. Impact of initial systematic bias in satellite clock offset
Figs. 2 and 3 show the RT-PPP positioning errors for
‘‘Clk + ISB” and ‘‘Two Clk” models at POL2 and ULAB With the PPP-B2b messages, the BDS-3/GPS UDUC
stations on DOY 251 of 2023 respectively. The kinematic RT-PPP model constructed in this paper sets one compen-
mode is employed. The RMS statistics of positioningerrors sation parameter for each satellite (hereinafter referred to
in east, north, up, and 3D directions at POL2 and ULAB as the ‘‘Two Clk with bias” model) to mitigate the negative
stations under the ‘‘Clk + ISB” model are 30.6, 20.4, impact of initial systematic bias in satellite clock offset on
7219
<!-- PAGE: 9 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
Fig. 8. Daily convergence time in 196 days atsixstationsinthestaticmode.
the RT-PPP positioning performance. This is compared to the positioning errors based on IGS RTS and PPP-B2b ser-
the traditional model without the compensation parameter vice at CUSV station in the first two hours on DOY 251 of
for the initial syst ematicbias(hereinafterreferredtoasthe 2023. The kinematic mode is employed. As shown in the
‘‘Two Clk without bias” model). figure, the positioning performance based on IGS RTS is
In this study, the position solution is considered to have better than that based on PPP-B2b service, particularly at
converged when the positioning errors remain below 20 cm the early stage of positioning. Furthermore, the observa-
in the horizont al direction and below 40 cm in the vertical tion data of the six selected stations on DOY 251 of 2023
directionforatleastfiveconsecutiveminutes.Figs. 4 and 5 are processed to analyze positioning performance, and all
illustrate the RT-PPP positioning errors for ‘‘Two Clk with the parameters are reset every two hours. According to
bias” and ‘‘Two Clk without bias” models at POL2 and thepositioningresultsoversixstations,theaverageconver-
ULAB stations in the first two hours on DOY 251 of gence time of PPP-B2b and IGS RTS in the kinematic
2023 respectively. The kinematic mode is employed. The mode is 11.9 and 9.8 min, respectively, demonstrating that
figures show that the convergence time is significantly theRT-PPPpositioningperformancebasedonIGSRTSis
reduced after introducing the compensation parameter, better than that based on PPP-B2b.
which is shortened by 53.6 % and 52.0 % from 14.0 and According to the UDUC model constructed above in
12.5 min to 6.5 and 6.0 min at POL2 and ULAB stations, this paper, three BDS-3/GPS IF RT-PPP models
respectively. After full convergence, the positioning accu- (‘‘Clk + ISB without bias”, ‘‘Two Clk without bias” , and
racy with the compensation parameter is comparable to ‘‘Two Clk with bias”) are constructed. Fig. 7 shows the
that without the compensation parameter. RT-PPP positioning errors for ‘‘Clk + ISB without bias”,
‘‘Two Clk without bias”, and ‘‘Two Clk with bias” models
4.4. Comparison with IGS RTS and assessment of IF model at POL2 station in the first two hours on DOY 251 of 2023.
The kinematic mode is employed. The figure demonstrates
IGS has been providing real-time services for over ten that similar with UDUC RT-PPP model, setting a receiver
years. And the Centre National d’Etudes Spatiales (CNES) clock offset parameter for each satellite system can reduce
provides archival precise orbit/clock products, based on the sudden changes of positioning errors, making it more
which UDUC RT-PPP can be implemented. Fig. 6 shows stable. Meanwhile, setting one compensation parameter
7220
<!-- PAGE: 10 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
Fig. 9. Daily convergence time in 196 daysatsixstationsinthekinematicmode.
Table 3
Average and STD statistics of BDS-3/GPS UDUC RT-PPP positioning accuracy in theeast/north/up/3Ddirectionsinthestaticandkinematicmodes.
Station Static (cm) Kinematic (cm)
Average STD Average STD
CUSV 4.7/0.7/1.8/5.3 2.3/0.6/1.4/2.2 8.1/3.4/11.4/14.7 3.4/1.6/3.4/4.2
POL2 5.5/1.6/2.5/6.6 1.2/1.1/2.2/1.7 7.7/4.5/10.2/13.8 2.3/1.8/4.0/4.1
ULAB 4.0/0.6/2.9/5.2 1.0/0.4/1.3/0.9 4.4/2.7/8.9/10.4 1.6/0.9/1.9/2.1
URUM 5.8/1.0/2.6/6.7 1.2/0.7/1.8/1.3 7.4/3.4/8.9/12.2 2.1/1.3/2.7/2.8
USUD 3.4/1.3/2.4/4.6 1.1/1.0/1.9/1.9 4.4/3.0/8.6/10.2 2.1/1.4/3.7/4.2
WUH2 4.0/0.4/2.6/5.0 1.0/0.3/1.3/1.1 6.6/2.8/8.7/11.5 2.6/2.2/2.9/4.0
for each satellite can accelerate convergence speed and sig- switched datum and the included initial systematic bias of
nificantly shorten convergence time. In comparison with PPP-B2b satellite clock offsets (namely ‘‘Clk + ISB without
‘‘Two Clk without bias” model, the convergence time of bias” model), this section evaluates the long-term position-
‘‘Two Clk with bias” model is reduced by 43.5 % from ing performance using the observations from DOY 251 in
11.5 to 6.5 min. 2023toDOY81in2024atsixstations,intermsofconver-
gence time and positioning accuracy.
4.5. Assessment of long-term RT-PPP positioning With the BDS-3/GPS UDUC RT-PPP model con-
performance structed in this paper, Figs. 8 and 9 provide the daily con-
vergence time in 196 days at six stations in the static and
Based on the BDS-3/GPS UDUC RT-PPP model con- kinematic modes, respectively. The average and standard
structed in this paper (namely ‘‘Two Clk with bias ”model) deviation (STD) statistics of convergence time over
and the traditional RT-PPP model ignoring the frequently 196 days are computed for each station, and they are pro-
7221
<!-- PAGE: 11 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
Fig. 10. Daily positioning accuracy in 196 days atsixstationsinthestaticmode.
vided in each panel. According to the average results over GPS UDUC RT-PPP positioning accuracy in the east/
six stations, the average convergence time is 7.5 and north/up/3D directions for each station in the static and
10.2 min in the static and kinematic modes, respectively, kinematic modes. According to the average results over
which is shortened by 41.3 % and 61.4 % over the tradi- six stations, the average positioning accuracy is 4.6, 0.9,
tional model with the corresponding statistics being 12.7 2.5, and 5.6 cm, and 6.4, 3.3, 9.5, and 12.6 cm in the east,
and 26.5 min, respectively. This demonstrates that the north, up and 3D directions in the static and kinematic
PPP-B2b UDUC RT-PPP model constructed in this paper modes, respectively, which demonstrates that the PPP-
can achieve fast convergence of position solutions withina B2b UDUC RT-PPP model can meet the requirements
much short period of time. Moreover, during the experi- forhigh-precisionpositioning.Meanwhile,thecorrespond-
ment period, the STD of convergence time is 3.9 and ingSTDofpositioningaccuracyis1.3,0.7,1.7,and1.5cm,
6.4 min in the static and kinematic modes, respectively. and 2.3, 1.5, 3.1, and 3.6 cm, respectively. This indicates
Fromperspectiveofconvergencetime,thismodelcanpro- that the BDS-3/GPS UDUC RT-PPP model based on
videuserswithstableandreliablepositioningperformance, PPP-B2b service can provide users with stable and reliable
which does not vary significantly over time. high-precision positioning performance.
With the BDS-3/GPS UDUC RT-PPP model con - In order to further evaluate the positioning accuracy of
structed in this paper, Figs. 10 and 11 exhibit the daily traditional RT-PPP model based on PPP-B2b and the RT-
positioning accuracy in 196 days at six stations in the static PPP model constructed in this study, Fig. 1 2 shows the
and kinematic modes, respectively. In the kinematic mode, epoch-wise RMS statistics of kinematic positioning errors
the daily positioning accuracy is defined as the RMS statis- for the two models. The epoch-wise RMS statistics at an
tics of positioning errors after full convergence (the results epoch are calculated using the positioning errors at the
in the first four hours are excluded), while the daily posi- same epoch from all daily position solutions (using the
tioning accuracy in the static mode is defined as the RMS 24-hour observations from 196 days at six stations). The
statics of positioning errors for the last half of an hour. kinematic positioning errors of traditional model fre-
Table 3 lists the average and STD statistics of BDS-3/ quently experience large jumps. In contrast, the kinematic
7222
<!-- PAGE: 12 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
Fig. 11. Daily positioning accuracy in 196 daysatsixstationsinthekinematicmode.
positioning errors of the BDS-3/GPS UDUC RT-PPP becomes more stable and reliable. Additionally, by setting
model constructed in this study can remain at a relatively a compensation parameter for each satellite to mit igatethe
low level after a rapid decline during the converging period, effects of initial systematic bias, this model accelerates the
indicating that the constructed RT-PPP model can signifi- convergence speed.
cantly reduce the occurrence of positioning error jumps The experiments of long-term RT-PPP positioning per-
and ensure the reliability of positioning results. formance reveal that that the average convergence time
of the BDS-3/GPS UDUC RT-PPP model based on
5. Conclusion PPP-B2b service constructed in this study can be 7.5 and
10.2 min in the static and kinematic modes, respectively.
The real-time precise satellite clock offsets of BDS-3 Compared to the traditional model, the corresponding con-
PPP-B2b service comprises three components, namely the vergence time is shortened by 41.3 % and 61.4 %, respec-
datum of satellite clock offsets, the initial systematic bias tively, indicating that the PPP-B2b UDUC RT-PPP
introduced by initial satellite clock offsets, and the actual model can achieve the rapid initialization of positioning.
satellite clock offsets. The changes in satellite clock datum Moreover, the average STD of convergence time over
cause the positioning errors of traditional RT-PPP model 196 days can reach 3.9 and 6.4 min in the static and kine-
to frequently jump after full convergence, leading to unsta- matic modes, respectively. Furthermore, the average posi-
ble and unreliable positioning results. The initial systematic tioning accuracies are 4.6, 0.9, 2.5, and 5.6 cm, and 6.4,
bias reduces the accuracy of code observations, affecting 3.3, 9.5, and 12.6 cm in the east, north, up and 3D direc-
the positioning accuracy in the converging stage and tions in the static and kinematic modes, respectively. This
decreasing the convergence speed. This study refines the demonstrates that the PPP-B2b UDUC RT-PPP model
BDS-3/GPS UDUC RT-PPP model based on the PPP- meets the requirements for high-precision positioning.
B2b service. By setting a receiver clock offset parameter Additionally, the average STD of positioning accuracy
for each system to account for the frequent changes in over 196 days is 1.3, 0.7, 1.7, and 1.5 cm, and 2.3, 1.5,
the GPS satellite clock datum, the positioning accuracy 3.1, and 3.6 cm in the four directions in the two modes,
7223
<!-- PAGE: 13 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
CSNO. 2021. BeiDou Navigation Satellite System Open Service
Performance Standard. China Satellite Navigation Office, Beijing,
Version 3.0, May 2021. http://www.beidou.gov.cn/xt/gfxz/202105/
P020210526216231136238.pdf.
CSNO. 2020. BeiDou Navigation Satellite System Signal In Space Interface
Control Document: Precise Point PositioningServiceSignalPPP-B2b.
ChinaSatelliteNavigationOffice,Beijing,Version1.0,July2020.http://
www.beidou.gov.cn/xt/gfxz/202008/P020230516574071340728.pdf.
Dach, R., Bockmann, E. (Eds.), 2024. International GNSS Service
Technical Report 2023 (IGS Annual Report). IGS Central Bureau
andUniversityofBern;BernOpenPublishing.doi:10.48350/191991.
Ge, Y., Cao, X., Lyu, D., He, Z., Ye, F., Xiao, G., Shen, F., 2023. An
investigation of PPP time transfer via BDS-3 PPP-B2b service. GPS
Solut27(2),61.https://doi.org/10.1007/s10291-023-01402-y.
Geng, T., Li, Z., Xie, X., Liu, W., Li, Y., Zhao, Q., 2022. Real-time ocean
precise point positioning with BDS-3 service signal PPP-B2b. Mea-
surement 203. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2022.111911
111911.
Guo, J., Geng, J., Zeng, J., Song, X., Defraigne, P., 2024. GPS/Galileo/
BDS phase bias stream fromWuhanIGSanalysiscenterforreal-time
PPP ambiguity resolution. GPS Solut 28 (2), 67. https://doi.org/
10.1007/s10291-023-01610-6.
Kouba, J., He´roux, P., 2001. Precise point positioning using IGS orbit and
clock products. GPS Solut 5 (2), 12–28. https://doi.org/10.1007/
PL00012883.
Malys, S., Jensen, P.A., 1990. Geodetic point positioning with GPS carrier
beat phase data from the CASA UNO Experiment. Geophys. Res.
Lett.17(5),651–654.https://doi.org/10.1029/GL017i005p00651.
Mervart, L., Weber, G. 2011. Real-time Combination of GNSS Orbit and
Clock Correction Streams Using a Kalman Filter Approach. In:
ProceedingsofIONGNSS2011,Portland,OR,USA,20–23Septem-
ber2011,pp707–711.
Montenbruck, O., Steigenberger, P., Hauschild, A., 2015. Broadcast
versus precise ephemerides: amulti-GNSSperspective.GPSSolut19
(2),321–333.https://doi.org/10.1007/s10291-014-0390-8.
Ren, Z., Gong, H., Peng, J., Tang, C., Huang, X., Sun, G., 2021.
Fig. 12. Epoch-wise RMS statistics of kinematic positioning errors for Performance assessment of real-time precise point positioning using
‘‘Two Clkwithbias”and‘‘Clk+ISBwithoutbias”models. BDS PPP-B2b service signal. Adv. Space Res. 68 (8), 3242–3254.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asr.2021.06.006.
respectively, indicating that the constructed PPP-B2b Saastamoinen, J., 1972. Atmospheric Correction fortheTroposphereand
UDUC RT-PPP model can provide stabl e and reliable Stratosphere in Radio Ranging Satellites. In: The Use of Artificial
Satellites for Geodesy. American Geophysical Union(AGU),pp.247–
high-precision positioning service.
251.
Takasu, T. 2013. RTKLIB: an open source programpackageforGNSS
Declaration of competing interest positioning.http://www.rtklib.com/.
Tang, C., Hu, X., Chen, J., Liu, L., Zhou, S., Guo, R., Li, X., He, F., Liu,
The authors declare that they have no known competing J., Yang, J., 2022.Orbitdetermination,clockestimationandperfor-
mance evaluation of BDS-3 PPP-B2b service. J. Geod. 96 (9), 60.
financial interests or personal relationships that couldhave
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00190-022-01642-9.
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
Tao, J., Liu, J., Hu, Z., Zhao, Q., Chen, G., Ju, B., 2021. Initial
Assessment of the BDS-3 PPP-B2b RTS compared with the CNES
Acknowledgements RTS. GPS Solut. 25 (4), 131. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10291-021-
01168-1.
Wu, J.-T., Wu, S.-C., Hajj, G., Bertiger, W., Lichten, S.M., 1993. Effects
The contribution of data from MGEX used in this study
of antenna orientation on GPS carrier phase. Manuscr Geodaet 18,
is appreciated. This work was supported by the National
91–98.https://doi.org/10.1007/BF03655303.
Natural Science Foundation of China (grant no. Wu, P., Lou, Y., Zhang, W., Dousa, J., He, H., Chai, J., Ouyang, Y.,
42388102), Department of Natural Resources of Hunan Zhang, Z., Zou, X., 2023. Evaluation of real-timekinematicposition-
Province (grant no. HNGTCH-2023-05). ingperformanceoftheBDS3PPPserviceonB2bsignal.GPSSolut.
27(4),192.https://doi.org/10.1007/s10291-023-01532-3.
Xiao, P., Sun, F., Wang, K., Xiao, K., Shang, X., Liu, J., 2023.
References
Positioning performance analysis of real-time BDS-3 PPP-B2b/INS
tightlycoupledintegrationinurbanenvironments.Adv.SpaceRes.72
Ashby, N., 2003. Relativity in the global positioning system.LivingRev. (9),4008–4020.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asr.2023.07.013.
Relativ.6,1.https://doi.org/10.12942/lrr-2003-1. Xu, X., Nie, Z., Wang, Z., Zhang, Y., Dong, L., 2023. An improved BDS-
Chen, L., Song, W., Yi, W., Shi, C., Lou, Y., Guo, H., 2017. Research on a 3 PPP-B2b positioning approach by estimating signal in space range
methodofreal-timecombinationofpreciseGPSclockcorrections.GPS errors. GPS Solut 27 (3), 110. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10291-023-
Solut.21(1),187–195.https://doi.org/10.1007/s10291-016-0515-3. 01455-z.
7224
<!-- PAGE: 14 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch75(2025)7212–7225
Xu, Y., Yang, Y., Li, J., 2021. Performance evaluation of BDS-3 PPP-B2b Zhang, W., Lou, Y., Song, W., Sun, W., Zou, X., Gong, X., 2022. Initial
precise point positioning service. GPS Solut. 25 (4), 142. https://doi. assessment of BDS-3 precise point positioning service on GEO B2b
org/10.1007/s10291-021-01175-2. signal. Adv. Space Res. 69 (1), 690–700. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
Yang, Y., Ding, Q., Gao, W., Li, J., Xu, Y., Sun, B., 2022. Principle and asr.2021.09.006.
performanceofBDSBASandPPP-B2bofBDS-3.Satell.Navig.3(1), Zhang, X., Li, X., Guo, F., 2011. Satellite clock estimation at 1 Hz for
5.https://doi.org/10.1186/s43020-022-00066-2. realtime kinematic PPP applications. GPS Solut 15 (4), 315–324.
Yao, Y., He, Y., Yi, W., Song, W., Cao, C., Chen, M., 2017. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10291-010-0191-7.
Method for evaluat ingreal-timeGNSSsatelliteclockoffsetproducts. Zhou, H., Fu, W., Wang, L., Li, T., Wu, Y., Chen, R., Li, J., 2023. Multi-
GPS Solut. 21 (4), 1417–1425. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10291-017- frequency BDS-3 real-time positioningperformanceassessmentusing
0619-4. newPPP-B2baugmentationservice.IEEESens.J.23(5),4994–5002.
Zang, J., Fan, S., Xu, C., Li, Z., Fang, R., Lou, Y., 2024. Performance https://doi.org/10.1109/JSEN.2023.3235901.
assessment of the BDS-3 PPP-B2b service for real-time earthquake Zumberge, J.F., Heflin, M.B., Jefferson, D.C., Watkins, M.M., Webb, F.
source description: a case study for the 2021 Mw 7.4 Maduo H., 1997. Precise point positioning for the efficient and robust analysis
earthquake. GPS Solut 28 (1), 26. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10291- of GPS data from large networks. J. Geophys. Res .Solid Earth102
023-01570-x. (B3),5005–5017.https://doi.org/10.1029/96JB03860.
7225
