<!-- PAGE: 1 -->

1
Vol.:(0123456789)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  
| https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports
Evaluation of L6 augmentation 
signal reception characteristics 
and positioning accuracy 
of compact and lightweight GNSS 
antennas
Taro Suzuki 
Applications requiring outdoor position estimation, such as unmanned construction and delivery 
automation, focus on receiving global navigation satellite system (GNSS) correction information 
from satellites for high-precision positioning. In particular, the delivery of correction information for 
the Galileo high-accuracy service (HAS) and quasi-zenith satellite system (QZSS) centimeter-level 
augmentation service (CLAS) is based on a new frequency band called L6. The L6 signal is a new type 
of GNSS signal, and a GNSS antenna corresponding to the frequency of the L6 signal (1275.46 MHz) 
is required to receive and decode the correction messages. The reception characteristics of the L6 
signal are important for receiving correction information. However, the reception performance of 
antennas supporting the new L6 signal has not been evaluated. Therefore, in this study, we evaluate 
the reception characteristics of the L6 signal of a compact and lightweight L6-compatible antenna, 
and the multipath characteristics, which are the fundamental performance of the antenna that affects 
high-precision positioning. In a 24-hour static test, each antenna’s signal reception performance and 
multipath characteristics were evaluated, and significant differences were found in performance 
among the antennas capable of receiving the L6 signal. Furthermore, in a kinematic test, we evaluated 
high-accuracy positioning using QZSS CLAS with multiple antennas and showed that centimeter-
level positioning using L6 augmentation signals is possible even with compact and lightweight GNSS 
antennas. These evaluations provide guidelines for antenna selection when high-precision positioning 
using L6 signals is employed in various applications.
Global navigation satellite systems (GNSSs) are widely used in various outdoor applications as position estimation 
methods. In particular, highly accurate real-time positional information in outdoor environments is required for 
the automation of construction and agricultural machinery, delivery by drones and ground robots, and automated 
vehicle operation. Achieving centimeter-level positioning with GNSS requires correction for various errors in 
GNSS observations, such as ionospheric and tropospheric delays, satellite orbit errors, and satellite clock errors. 
Typical high-precision positioning methods include real-time kinematic (RTK) GNSS, which uses the double 
difference between the GNSS reference station and the GNSS observation of a user, and precise point positioning 
(PPP), which provides centimeter-level positioning accuracy with a single receiver, using precise satellite orbit 
and clock products generated by a network of GNSS reference stations distributed around the ­world1. These 
methods are widely used in the above applications; however, the main difficulty with these methods is obtaining 
the correction information. In RTK-GNSSs, local radio communication with a reference station or networked 
RTK-GNSSs using the Internet is widely used. In PPP, real-time positioning can be achieved by receiving cor-
rection information over an internet connection.
However, a method that uses a local area network incurs a large system construction cost. Methods that 
use the Internet cannot be used in environments where Internet access is not available, e.g., in the moun-
tains or at sea. Therefore, high-precision positioning methods for distributing satellite correction information 
have attracted considerable attention in recent years. Trimble ­RTX2, ­TerraStar3, and u-blox ­PointPerfect4 are 
OPEN
Chiba Institute of Technology, Future Robotics Technology Center, 2‑17‑1, Tsudanuma, Narashino, Chiba 2750016, 
Japan. email: taro@furo.org
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved

> [1 Figure(s)]


|Col1|www.nature.com/scientificreports|
|---|---|



<!-- PAGE: 2 -->

2
Vol:.(1234567890)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  | 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
well-known commercial services. These services receive correction information from geostationary satellites by 
using L-band frequencies to achieve high-precision positioning. These services are fee-based and require separate 
agreements. On the other hand, GNSS correction information distribution services that can be used free of charge 
include MADOCA-PPP5, which provides correction information via quasi-zenith satellite system (QZSS), and 
centimeter-level augmentation service (CLAS)6, which provides correction information for PPP-RTK launched in 
2021 by the Japanese QZSS. In addition, European Galileo launched a high-precision positioning service (HAS)7 
in 2022. Common to all these services is providing PPP or PPP-RTK correction information from a satellite and 
using the L6 band (1275.46 MHz). The QZSS MADOCA, CLAS, and Galileo HAS messages are transmitted over 
signals called L6E, L6D, and E6. A GNSS antenna corresponding to the L6 band frequency and a GNSS receiver 
capable of tracking the L6D/E and E6 signals are required to use these corrected information.
The following problems occur when high-precision positioning services are used with an L6 signal:
•	 The reception characteristics of the L6 signal are important for receiving correction information from sat-
ellites in real-world environments; however, the reception performance of the L6 signal, especially with 
compact and lightweight antennas supporting the new L6 signal has not been adequately evaluated.
•	 Compact and lightweight antennas are suitable for the high-precision positioning of construction machin-
ery, agricultural machinery, robots, and vehicles. The correction signal transmitted at L6 is usually applied 
to the GNSS observations of the L1 or L2 signal. However, compact and lightweight antennas often have 
lower signal reception strength, multipath characteristics, and carrier phase center stability compared with 
surveying antennas. Moreover, the performance of small and lightweight antennas has not been evaluated, 
and whether they can be applied to high-precision positioning using L6 signals is not clear.
As the L6 signal is close in frequency to the conventionally used GNSS L2 ­signal8, the L6 signal can often be 
received at a high signal strength (at high elevation angles) on an antenna capable of receiving L2. However, 
some antennas cannot receive L6 signals at low elevation angles even though they are designed to support the 
L6 band. Therefore, an evaluation of L6-compatible antennas must be conducted.
This study evaluates the reception characteristics of the L6 signal of a compact and lightweight L6-compatible 
antenna that can be used in robots, and the multipath characteristics, which are the fundamental performance 
of the antenna that affects high-precision positioning. This provides guidelines for antenna selection when using 
the QZSS CLAS, MADOCA-PPP, or Galileo HAS for high-precision positioning in real-world applications.
Related studies
Several studies have been conducted to evaluate the performance of GNSS antennas in terms of their signal 
reception capabilities, including their multipath ­immunity9,10. These studies have focused on the calibration of 
the antenna carrier phase center and its ­variation11 and on evaluating how the antenna phase center calibration 
parameters affect positioning ­accuracy12. Historically, antenna evaluation research has primarily focused on 
large survey-grade antennas.
Recently, several low-cost multi-frequency GNSS antennas have become available with the proliferation of 
low-cost dual-frequency GNSS receivers. Moreover, the performance of small, lightweight, and low-cost GNSS 
antennas has rarely been evaluated. Hamza et al. (2021)13 and Krietemeyer et al. (2020)14 evaluated the accuracy 
of GNSS observations and the positioning accuracy of low-cost dual-frequency GNSS receivers, survey GNSS 
antennas, and small patch antennas. Hamza et al.15, Poluzzi et al.  (2020)16 compared the RTK-GNSS accuracies 
of three low-cost antennas. In recent years, low-cost antennas for smartphones have been evaluated, as smart-
phones can be used to acquire raw GNSS ­measurements17,18. However, these studies only evaluated antennas 
for the GNSS L1 signal and not for the L6 signal. Moreover, these low-cost antennas have only been evaluated 
as patch antennas, and few evaluations have been conducted on helical GNSS antennas, which have become 
popular in recent years. Li et al. (2022)19 compared the positioning accuracy of helical and surveying antennas 
in smartphones; however, the performance of helical antennas for L6 signals was not evaluated. Karasawa et al.20 
evaluated the reception capability of the developed L6 antenna; however, no detailed comparison with existing 
antennas was made.
On the other hand, PPP and PPP-RTK have been evaluated using L6 signal augmentation data. Suzuki et al. 
(2014)21 evaluated PPP using QZSS MADOCA, ­and22 evaluated PPP-RTK using QZSS CLAS for their positioning 
accuracy in a real outdoor environment. Fernandez-Hernandez et al. (2023)23 and Naciri et al. (2023)24 evaluated 
positioning accuracy using Galileo’s HAS. However, all these evaluations of high-precision positioning using 
the L6 signal used survey antennas; whether compact and lightweight antennas can be used for high-precision 
positioning using the L6 signal is still not clear.
This study evaluates the reception performance of L6 signals and the multipath performance of several 
compact, lightweight antennas. We also compare the positioning performance of these antennas using L6 aug-
mentation signal in real-world conditions using kinematic tests.
Antenna evaluation method
Figure 1 shows the relationship between the main GNSS frequencies and types of transmitted signals. The L6 
frequency band is close to the L2 band, which has been widely used in GNSS receivers for a long time and is the 
most recently used transmission frequency compared to other signals. The L6 frequency band is approximately 
30 MHz away from the G2 signal, which is the L2 signal of GLONASS. In many cases, antennas that can receive 
the L2 signal can also receive the L6 signal, which is close in frequency to the L2 signal, although the received 
signal strength is reduced. Therefore, even the antennas listed in the catalog as being capable of receiving L6 
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved

<!-- PAGE: 3 -->

3
Vol.:(0123456789)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  | 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
signals fail to receive them from satellites at low elevation angles, which is a practical problem. In this study, we 
evaluate L6-compatible GNSS antennas in terms of the following factors.
Size and weight
For delivery robots and drones, the size and weight of the antenna are important selection criteria because of 
the weight that can be carried and space limitations. Here, antennas with a weight of 250 g or less and a diam-
eter of 100 mm or less were selected as L6-compatible antennas for evaluation. Compact and lightweight GNSS 
antennas can be used for various applications. However, smaller antennas generally have lower gain and poorer 
multipath performance than survey-grade ­antennas9. Therefore, this study compares the performance of a small, 
lightweight, L6-compatible antenna with that of survey-grade antennas.
Antenna type
Two types of GNSS antenna systems are commonly used to receive circularly polarized GNSS signals: patch 
antennas, which consist of plate-shaped conductors with additional feed points stacked at different frequencies, 
and helical antennas, which consist of spiral-shaped conductors. Patch antennas have been used for a long time in 
GNSS surveys. Helical antennas are significantly lighter than patch antennas. Therefore, helical GNSS antennas, 
such as drones, have been widely used in recent years for applications with strict onboard weight restrictions. 
In addition, helical antennas are smaller in radial size than patch antennas but generally taller. This study also 
compared the performances of patch and helical antennas.
Phase center information
A phase-center offset (PCO) relative to the antenna reference point (ARP) is required to use the antenna for 
precise survey applications. For surveying applications, antenna calibration must further correct the phase-center 
variation (PCV) corresponding to the satellite elevation angle and frequency. However, PCV correction through 
calibration is rarely provided for small, lightweight, and inexpensive antennas, and some antennas do not pro-
vide PCO for ARP. The availability of an antenna’s phase-center information is very important when applying 
L6-based high-precision positioning to various applications.
Elevation angle: L6 signal strength characteristics
As mentioned above, the L6 signal strength is crucial for high-precision positioning applications. A low signal 
strength causes unstable signal tracking and prevents the decoding of L6 signal messages. Therefore, this study 
evaluates each antenna’s L6 signal reception capability by evaluating the actual L6 signal strength versus the 
elevation angle in an open-sky environment.
Multipath characteristics
In the case of Galileo HAS and QZSS CLAS and MADOCA, the correction signal transmitted at L6 signal is 
applied to the GNSS observations of the L1, L2 or L5 signals. When PPP and RTK are used for high-accuracy 
positioning, the multipath characteristics of the pseudorange and carrier phase of the antenna are very impor-
tant. If the multipath characteristics of the antenna are poor, the positioning error will increase and the carrier 
phase ambiguity fixed rate in the PPP-RTK will decrease. Therefore, in this study, we evaluate the magnitude of 
the pseudorange multipath error in the L1 signal for each small antenna using linear multipath combinations to 
evaluate the multipath characteristics of the antennas.
L2C
L5
E5a
E5b
B2b
B2a
G3
I5
G2
L6(QZSS)
E6
B3I
L1C/A
E1
B1I
L1C
G1
GPS
GLONASS
Galileo
BeiDou
QZSS
IRNSS
2
5
.
8
6
2
1
6
4
2
1
6
.
7
2
2
1
5
4
.
6
7
1
1
4
1
.
7
0
2
1
1278.75
1561.098 1575.42 1602
5
L
2
L
6
L
1
L
MHz
E5 AltBOC
B2I
B1C
Figure 1.   Relationship between GNSS transmission signal type and its frequency. The center frequency of the 
L6 signal is 1278.75 MHz, which is close to the G2 signal frequency of GLONASS, which has been widely used 
for a long time.
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved


|I5|B2I|Col3|
|---|---|---|
|B2a|B2b|B2b|
|E5 AltBOC|E5 AltBOC|E5 AltBOC|
|E5a|E5b|E5b|
|L5||G3|




|L2C|Col2|G2|
|---|---|---|



<!-- PAGE: 4 -->

4
Vol:.(1234567890)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  | 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Positioning accuracy
For a comprehensive evaluation of L6-compatible antennas, we received QZSS L6D signals under real-world 
conditions and evaluated the positioning accuracy of PPP-RTK using CLAS. Using the high-precision position-
ing method with L6 signals, we evaluated whether, in a real environment, the survey and small or light antennas 
showed any difference in the positioning accuracy and fixed rate.
Target antennas
Figure 2 shows a list of the GNSS antennas evaluated in this study and their specifications. This study evaluated 
12 antennas that support the L6 signal and are available for purchase worldwide in 2023. The Harxon CSX-601A 
in #1 is a survey GNSS antenna for comparison, and the other GNSS antennas were selected to be compact and 
lightweight (less than 250 g and less than 100 mm in diameter). Among the antennas evaluated, six were patch 
and six were helical.
As shown in Figure 2, the weight of the helical antennas was much lower. The patch antennas weighed over 
200 g, whereas all the helical antennas were very light, with a weight of only a few tens of grams. In applications 
in which weight is an issue, helical antennas are more advantageous than patch antennas. In terms of antenna 
size, helical antennas have a smaller footprint but greater height than patch antennas. In addition, small and 
lightweight antennas are more likely to lack the phase-center offsets provided by the manufacturer. When such 
antennas are used in applications requiring high-precision positioning, the ARP and PCO must be determined 
by placing the antenna at a point with a known position and observing it. Among the small lightweight antennas, 
the Harxon and Tallysman antennas #2, #7, #8, #9, and #10 provide antenna PCOs to the ARPs.
Static test
The L6 signal strength and L1 signal multipath characteristics were evaluated with respect to the elevation angle 
of the antenna using static tests in an open-sky environment. Figure 3 shows the configuration of the experiment 
and the photographs taken during the experiment. Four antennas were set up in an open-sky environment, and 
GNSS observations with a period of 1 Hz were acquired for 24 h using Septentrio mosaic-CLAS, which sup-
ported the reception of the QZSS CLAS signals. The four receivers were operated with exactly the same settings 
except for the antennas. After 24 h, the antennas were changed, and GNSS observations were acquired for the 12 
antennas. The experiment was conducted between March 18 and 21, 2023, with an additional antenna added as 
an additional experiment on April 28 and 29, 2023. All data were acquired with a 15-cm-diameter metal ground 
plane to suppress multipath from ground ­reflections25, as shown in Figure 3, except for the CSX-601A survey 
antenna. In contrast to the survey antennas, antenna manufacturers recommend the use of antennas with an 
.
o
N
)
1
(
)
2
(
)
3
(
)
4
(
)
5
(
)
6
(
e
r
u
tc
a
f
u
n
a
M
n
o
x
r
a
H
n
o
x
r
a
H
L
E
T
C
P
s
s
e
r
g
o
a
T
S
S
N
G
P
O
T
Q
A
P
N
I
A
2
5
1
-
N
A
W
6
U
9
0
X
L
S
P
G
XAHP.50.A.301111
e
m
a
N
a
n
n
e
t
n
A
A
1
0
6
X
S
C
-
X
H
A
3
0
6
X
V
C
-
X
H
5
2
1
L
-
S
S
N
G
Photo
L
,
2
L
,
1
L
6
L
,
5
L
,
2
L
,
1
L
6
L
,
5
L
,
2
L
,
1
L
6
L
,
5
L
,
2
L
,
1
L
6
L
,
5
L
,
2
L
,
1
L
s
d
n
a
B
y
c
n
e
u
q
e
r
F
6
L
,
5
L
,
2
L
,
1
L
6
L
,
5
xile
H
/
h
ct
a
P
h
ct
a
P
h
ct
a
P
h
ct
a
P
h
ct
a
P
h
ct
a
P
h
ct
a
P
r
e
t
n
e
C
e
s
a
h
P
Y
Y
N
N
N
N
65x65x26 mm
67.5x27 mm
95x58 mm
76.2x37 mm
90.6x26 mm
e
zi
S
m
m
6
.
2
6
x
4
.
3
7
1
t
h
gie
W
g
0
0
5
g
0
5
2
g
0
1
2
g
0
5
2
g
0
5
1
g
0
0
2
.
o
N
)
7
(
)
8
(
)
9
(
)
0
1
(
)
1
1
(
)
2
1
(
e
r
u
tc
a
f
u
n
a
M
n
a
m
s
ylla
T
n
o
x
r
a
H
n
o
x
r
a
H
n
o
x
r
a
H
t
e
g
r
a
T
-i
H
a
n
e
tx
a
M
9
C
H
A
0
0
6
X
H
C
-
X
H
A
9
0
6
7
H
C
-
X
H
A
3
0
6
7
U
C
-
X
H
6
3
2
4
-
H
A
A
M
S
-
A
-
T
C
H
9
M
e
m
a
N
a
n
n
e
t
n
A
6
7
Photo
L
,
2
L
,
1
L
6
L
,
5
L
,
2
L
,
1
L
6
L
,
5
L
,
2
L
,
1
L
6
L
,
5
L
,
2
L
,
1
L
6
L
,
5
L
,
2
L
,
1
L
s
d
n
a
B
y
c
n
e
u
q
e
r
F
6
L
,
2
L
,
1
L
6
L
,
5
xile
H
/
h
ct
a
P
xile
H
xile
H
xile
H
xile
H
xile
H
xile
H
r
e
t
n
e
C
e
s
a
h
P
Y
Y
Y
Y
N
N
34x51 mm
48x32 mm
32.2x45.8 mm
43.6x40.8 mm
40x82.6 mm
e
zi
S
m
m
4
.
2
6
x
2
.
4
4
t
h
gie
W
g
2
4
g
5
4
g
5
.
0
3
g
0
2
g
0
5
g
6
2
Figure 2.   L6-compatible antennas to be evaluated. We selected 12 antennas. #1 shows a surveying antenna for 
comparison, and the others are compact and lightweight L6-compatible antennas weighing less than 250 g and 
with a diameter of less than 100 mm. The “Size” row in Figure 2 shows the diameter and height for cylindrical 
antennas and the three-sided size for rectangular antennas.
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved

> [1 Figure(s)]


|No.|(1)|(2)|(3)|(4)|(5)|(6)|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|e<br>r<br>u<br>tc<br>a<br>f<br>u<br>n<br>a<br>M|n<br>o<br>x<br>r<br>a<br>H|n<br>o<br>x<br>r<br>a<br>H|L<br>E<br>T<br>C<br>P|s<br>s<br>e<br>r<br>g<br>o<br>a<br>T|S<br>S<br>N<br>G<br>P<br>O<br>T|Q<br>A<br>P<br>N<br>I|
|e<br>m<br>a<br>N<br>a<br>n<br>n<br>e<br>t<br>n<br>A|A<br>1<br>0<br>6<br>X<br>S<br>C<br>-<br>X<br>H|A<br>3<br>0<br>6<br>X<br>V<br>C<br>-<br>X<br>H|5<br>2<br>1<br>L<br>-<br>S<br>S<br>N<br>G|XAHP.50.A.301111|A<br>2<br>5<br>1<br>-<br>N<br>A|W<br>6<br>U<br>9<br>0<br>X<br>L<br>S<br>P<br>G|
|Photo|||||||
|s<br>d<br>n<br>a<br>B<br>y<br>c<br>n<br>e<br>u<br>q<br>e<br>r<br>F|6<br>L<br>,<br>5<br>L<br>,<br>2<br>L<br>,<br>1<br>L|L<br>,<br>2<br>L<br>,<br>1<br>L<br>6<br>L<br>,<br>5|6<br>L<br>,<br>5<br>L<br>,<br>2<br>L<br>,<br>1<br>L|6<br>L<br>,<br>5<br>L<br>,<br>2<br>L<br>,<br>1<br>L|6<br>L<br>,<br>5<br>L<br>,<br>2<br>L<br>,<br>1<br>L|6<br>L<br>,<br>5<br>L<br>,<br>2<br>L<br>,<br>1<br>L|
|xile<br>H<br>/<br>h<br>ct<br>a<br>P|h<br>ct<br>a<br>P|h<br>ct<br>a<br>P|h<br>ct<br>a<br>P|h<br>ct<br>a<br>P|h<br>ct<br>a<br>P|h<br>ct<br>a<br>P|
|r<br>e<br>t<br>n<br>e<br>C<br>e<br>s<br>a<br>h<br>P|Y|Y|N|N|N|N|
|e<br>zi<br>S|m<br>m<br>6<br>.<br>2<br>6<br>x<br>4<br>.<br>3<br>7<br>1|90.6x26 mm|76.2x37 mm|95x58 mm|67.5x27 mm|65x65x26 mm|
|t<br>h<br>gie<br>W|g<br>0<br>0<br>5|g<br>0<br>5<br>2|g<br>0<br>1<br>2|g<br>0<br>5<br>2|g<br>0<br>5<br>1|g<br>0<br>0<br>2|
||||||||
|.<br>o<br>N|)<br>7<br>(|)<br>8<br>(|)<br>9<br>(|)<br>0<br>1<br>(|)<br>1<br>1<br>(|)<br>2<br>1<br>(|
|e<br>r<br>u<br>tc<br>a<br>f<br>u<br>n<br>a<br>M|n<br>a<br>m<br>s<br>ylla<br>T|n<br>o<br>x<br>r<br>a<br>H|n<br>o<br>x<br>r<br>a<br>H|n<br>o<br>x<br>r<br>a<br>H|t<br>e<br>g<br>r<br>a<br>T<br>-i<br>H|a<br>n<br>e<br>tx<br>a<br>M|
|e<br>m<br>a<br>N<br>a<br>n<br>n<br>e<br>t<br>n<br>A|9<br>C<br>H<br>6<br>7|A<br>0<br>0<br>6<br>X<br>H<br>C<br>-<br>X<br>H|A<br>9<br>0<br>6<br>7<br>H<br>C<br>-<br>X<br>H|A<br>3<br>0<br>6<br>7<br>U<br>C<br>-<br>X<br>H|6<br>3<br>2<br>4<br>-<br>H<br>A|A<br>M<br>S<br>-<br>A<br>-<br>T<br>C<br>H<br>9<br>M|
|Photo|||||||
|s<br>d<br>n<br>a<br>B<br>y<br>c<br>n<br>e<br>u<br>q<br>e<br>r<br>F|6<br>L<br>,<br>2<br>L<br>,<br>1<br>L|L<br>,<br>2<br>L<br>,<br>1<br>L<br>6<br>L<br>,<br>5|6<br>L<br>,<br>5<br>L<br>,<br>2<br>L<br>,<br>1<br>L|6<br>L<br>,<br>5<br>L<br>,<br>2<br>L<br>,<br>1<br>L|6<br>L<br>,<br>5<br>L<br>,<br>2<br>L<br>,<br>1<br>L|6<br>L<br>,<br>5<br>L<br>,<br>2<br>L<br>,<br>1<br>L|
|xile<br>H<br>/<br>h<br>ct<br>a<br>P|xile<br>H|xile<br>H|xile<br>H|xile<br>H|xile<br>H|xile<br>H|
|r<br>e<br>t<br>n<br>e<br>C<br>e<br>s<br>a<br>h<br>P|Y|Y|Y|Y|N|N|
|e<br>zi<br>S|m<br>m<br>4<br>.<br>2<br>6<br>x<br>2<br>.<br>4<br>4|40x82.6 mm|43.6x40.8 mm|32.2x45.8 mm|48x32 mm|34x51 mm|
|t<br>h<br>gie<br>W|g<br>2<br>4|g<br>5<br>4|g<br>5<br>.<br>0<br>3|g<br>0<br>2|g<br>0<br>5|g<br>6<br>2|



<!-- PAGE: 5 -->

5
Vol.:(0123456789)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  | 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
additional ground plane for small and lightweight antennas. Therefore, the same ground plane was used for all 
small antennas in this study to obtain data for fair comparison.
The L6D signal for CLAS broadcast from PRN 194 of the QZSS was used to evaluate the reception charac-
teristics of the L6 signal. The satellite constellation and elevation angle of QZSS PRN 194 during the experi-
ment are shown in Figure 4. The elevation angle started at 0″, and data were collected until it returned to 0° in 
approximately 24 h.
Signal strength versus elevation angle
The carrier-to-noise ratio (CNR) of the L6D signal versus the satellite elevation angle for each antenna is shown 
in Fig. 5. The red line in Fig. 5 represents the elevation angle of the QZSS, and the blue line represents the CNR of 
the L6D signal at that time. As shown in Fig. 5, a large difference can be observed in the strength of the received 
L6 signal for each antenna. The survey antenna #1 (HX-CSX601A) has the highest L6 signal strength near the 
zenith; however, it has a lower signal strength at low elevation angles than the other antennas. For antennas #3 
(GNSS-L125), #4 (XAHP.50.A.301111), #5 (AN-152A), #6 (GPSLX09U6W), #11 (AH-4236), and #12 (M9HCT-
A-SMA), it was confirmed that L6 signal tracking was interrupted when CNR decreased at low elevation angles. 
In particular, the signal strength of antennas #6 and #12 was generally low, and the time during which the L6 
signal could not be tracked was longer than that of the other antennas. In addition, when the signal strength was 
low at low elevation angles, cycle slips occurred frequently even when the L6 signal was tracked. Antenna 6 has 
Receiver #1
Mosaic-
CLAS
Antenna #1
Receiver #2
Mosaic-
CLAS
Antenna #2
Receiver #3
Mosaic-
CLAS
Antenna #3
Receiver #4
Mosaic-
CLAS
Antenna #4
Figure 3.   Experimental configuration and photographs of the antenna performance evaluation in a static test 
in an open-sky environment. GNSS observations are acquired simultaneously from four antennas for 24 hours. 
Each antenna is equipped with a 150-mm-diameter ground plane.
Figure 4.   Satellite position and elevation angle of QZSS PRN194 during the static test. Data are collected for 
approximately 24 hours from the horizon from the time the satellite rises until it sets.
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved

> [3 Figure(s)]

<!-- PAGE: 6 -->

6
Vol:.(1234567890)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  | 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
a greater variation in signal strength than the other antennas. This fluctuation in the signal strength of antenna 
#6 was also observed in the repeat experiment, and the specific reason for this phenomenon is not known. In 
addition, a drop in CNR was observed several times. For example, this phenomenon occurred simultaneously 
at several antennas (antennas #9, #10, and #11) around 1:13 am on March 21. It is possible that interference of 
the GNSS signal by some external signal is the cause of this phenomenon. However, since this phenomenon 
occurred only a few times in a short period of time during the 24-hour data acquisition period, it does not have 
a significant impact on the statistical evaluation of the antennas.
Figure 6 shows a comparison of the average CNR and its standard deviation (1 sigma) for the satellite elevation 
angles of 80°, 60°, 40°, and 20°. The CNR at elevation angles in the range of +-1 degree of each reference eleva-
tion angle was extracted, and the mean and standard deviation were calculated. The survey antenna, antenna #1 
Figure 5.   CNR of QZSS L6D signal and elevation angle of each antenna. A difference can be observed between 
the CNR at high and low elevation angles for each antenna. Some antennas cannot track the L6D signal stably at 
low elevation angles.
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved

> [1 Figure(s)]

<!-- PAGE: 7 -->

7
Vol.:(0123456789)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  | 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
(HX-CSX601A), stably receives the L6 signal at all elevation angles. Antenna #2 (HX-CVX603A) receives the 
L6 signal among the patch antennas, second only to the survey antenna. Helical antennas tend to have higher 
signal strength characteristics at low elevation angles than patch antennas. Among helical antennas, antennas #7 
(HC976), #8 (HX-CHX600A), and #9 (HX-CH7609A) exhibit superior signal strength characteristics. Antennas 
#6 and #12 are not suitable for using the L6 signal for positioning in actual applications because the L6 signal 
cannot be stably tracked at an elevation angle of 20°. Antennas #2 and #7, which have high signal reception 
performance, are considered suitable for high-precision positioning applications using the L6 signal because the 
manufacturer also provides phase-center information relative to the ARP.
Multipath characteristics
The accuracy of the GNSS observations, including the multipath characteristics of the GNSS observations for each 
antenna, was evaluated. The multipath characteristics were evaluated using a multipath linear ­combination1. If 
the observed carrier phase at frequency band A is φA and observed pseudorange is ρA , and the observed carrier 
phase at frequency band B is ρB , the multipath combination mA is expressed by the following equation:
where fA and fB denote the corresponding frequencies. mA includes code multipath error/noise, carrier multipath 
error/noise, frequency-dependent circuit delay, and carrier phase ambiguites. Carrier phase multipath error 
has a smaller absolute value than code multipath error, and carrier phase ambiguity and circuit delay shift mA . 
Therefore, to evaluate the code multipath error, an offset is subtracted so that the average value of equation (1) is 
zero in the interval where no cycle slip flag is output by the receiver. As a result, the code multipath error and the 
carrier phase multipath errors remain, and the large code multipath error relative to the carrier phase multipath 
error can be evaluated for each target antenna. In QZSS CLAS and Galileo HAS, the L6 signal is used as a carrier 
for correction information, and the pseudorange and carrier phase of the L6 signal are not used for positioning. 
In high-precision positioning using correction information from satellites, it is the multipath characteristics of 
frequencies other than the L6 signal that affect the positioning accuracy. In this study, the multipath error of 
the L1 signal is evaluated.
As with the evaluation of signal strength, the QZSS signal at PRN 194 was used for the evaluation of multipath. 
Figure 7 shows the satellite elevation angle and magnitude of the linear multipath coupling for each antenna. As 
(1)
mA = ρA −φA −2k(φA −φB),
k =
f 2
B
f 2
A −f 2
B
Figure 6.   Comparison of the average CNR of the L6 signal and its standard deviation at satellite elevation 
angles of 20°, 40°, 60°, and 80° (top to bottom). A large difference is observed in the reception characteristics of 
the L6 signal at low elevation angles for each antenna.
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved

<!-- PAGE: 8 -->

8
Vol:.(1234567890)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  | 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
previously noted, an offset is subtracted such that the average is zero in the interval with no cycle slip. The eleva-
tion angle and magnitude of the multipath are related, and the multipath error varies significantly at low elevation 
angles. The survey antenna (antenna #1) has the most suppressed multipath at high elevation angles, whereas 
smaller and lighter antennas tend to have larger multipath errors. The multipath fluctuation of antenna #4 was 
greater than that of the other antennas throughout all elevation angles. Some antennas could not continuously 
track the L6 signal at low elevation angles, however, all antennas could continuously track the L1 and L2 signals.
Figure 8 shows the standard deviation of the multipath error (1 sigma) for the satellite elevation angles of 
80°, 60°, 40°, and 20°. A large variation can be observed in the multipath characteristics between the antennas. 
Antenna #1 for surveying has the lowest multipath error, especially at high elevation angles, confirming its high 
ranging performance. The helical antenna tends to have slightly larger multipath error than the patch antenna. 
Antenna #4 has a larger multipath variation than the other antennas. The multipath characteristics of antennas 
Figure 7.   Pseudorange multipath values of the L1CA signal for each antenna. An offset is subtracted such that 
the average is zero. The multipath and its variation are small for the survey antenna, and the multipath error 
increases at low elevation angles.
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved

> [1 Figure(s)]

<!-- PAGE: 9 -->

9
Vol.:(0123456789)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  | 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
#2 and #7, which have good L6 signal reception characteristics, are excellent, although they are inferior to the 
antennas used for surveying.
Kinematic test
Three antennas, #1 (HX-CSX601A), #2 (HX-CVX603A), and #7 (HC976), which had high L6 signal strength 
in the static test, were used to compare the positioning accuracy of CLAS positioning using actual QZSS L6D 
signals when a vehicle was moving in a suburban area. Figure 9 shows the sensor configuration for the kinematic 
Figure 8.   Standard deviation of pseudorange multipath of the L1CA signal (1 sigma) at satellite elevation angles 
of 20°, 40°, 60°, and 80°. The multipath error is large at low elevation angles, and the magnitude of the multipath 
error varies widely from antenna to antenna.
Receiver
Mosaic-
CLAS
Antenna
HX-CSX601A
Receiver
Mosaic-
CLAS
Receiver
Mosaic-
CLAS
Antenna
HX-CVX603A
Antenna
HC976
Splitter
Reference
SPAN-CPT7
Figure 9.   Experimental configuration and photographs of the positioning accuracy evaluation test using 
the QZSS L6D signal (CLAS) in the kinematic test. The NovAtel SPAN-CPT7 is used to acquire the reference 
position and evaluate the positioning accuracy of the three antennas that demonstrated high performance in the 
static test.
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved

> [1 Figure(s)]

<!-- PAGE: 10 -->

10
Vol:.(1234567890)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  | 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
experiment and a photograph of the equipment, where three antennas were installed on the vehicle and PPP-RTK 
positioning by CLAS was performed simultaneously using Septentrio’s Mosaic-CLAS, as in the static test. For 
CLAS positioning, the PPP-RTK method is used to calculate the positioning solution by applying the correc-
tion information transmitted by the L6D signal to the L1 and L2 GNSS observations. The PPP-RTK engine used 
in the experiments was the one built into the mosaic-CLAS receiver, and the satellite systems used for CLAS 
positioning were GPS, Galileo, and QZSS only.
The position reference was NovAtel SPAN-CPT7, which is a combined GNSS/INS navigation system. Posi-
tioning accuracy is evaluated by driving the course shown in Fig. 10 several times at different times. As shown 
in Fig. 10, the driving environment was a suburban area. The colors of the plots in Fig. 10 indicate the average 
number of GNSS satellites received. Some of the driving sections are in an open environment lined with short 
buildings, and some sections are in an environment where the road is narrow and the surrounding buildings 
shield the GNSS signals. Experiments were conducted several times on the same route at different times to evalu-
ate the positioning accuracy of CLAS between different antennas. During these experiments, the QZSS satellite 
transmitting the L6 signal was located near the zenith.
Figures 11a,b show the positioning results for each antenna and the horizontal positioning error compared 
to the reference during two runs along the same route at different times. The green dots in the figure represent 
the fixed solution with the carrier-phase ambiguity resolved, and the yellow dots represent the float solution. The 
blue dots indicate code-based differential GNSS positioning solutions. Table 1 lists the L6 signal availability, car-
rier phase ambiguity fixed rate for each antenna, and the horizontal and vertical root mean square (RMS) errors 
of the fixed solutions. In both tests, the L6 signal availability was almost 100 % for all antennas. This is because 
QZSS was located almost at the zenith, and CLAS correction messages were received without interruption. In 
Test #1, the carrier phase ambiguity fixed rate for the surveying antenna exceeded 90 %, while the compact and 
lightweight antenna showed a slightly lower fixed rate. In Test #2, the overall fixed rate was lower than in Test 
#1, and as in Test #1, the surveying antenna had the highest fixed rate. The average number of satellites received 
over the entire travel time was 15.2 for Test #1 and 14.9 for Test #2. In Test #2, the number of visible satellites 
was lower in some sections, and the carrier phase ambiguity fixed rate was lower than in Test #1. In terms of 
positioning accuracy, the position could be estimated with centimeter-level accuracy at the points where a fixed 
solution was obtained in each antenna. The surveying antennas achieved slightly better positioning accuracy than 
the compact and lightweight antennas. However, the performance degradation was slight, and the carrier phase 
ambiguity fixed rate and positioning accuracy were sufficiently practical even with a compact and lightweight L6 
signal-capable antenna. In conclusion, we confirmed that the QZSS CLAS can be used to estimate the position of 
a moving object, such as a vehicle, with centimeter-level accuracy using even compact and lightweight antennas 
with good reception characteristics for the L6 signal.
Figure 10.   Vehicle trajectory and environment during the kinematic test. The color indicates the average 
number of received satellites. The environment is a typical suburban area where the satellite is sometimes 
obstructed by tall structures.
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved

> [1 Figure(s)]

<!-- PAGE: 11 -->

11
Vol.:(0123456789)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  | 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
Conclusion
In this study, we evaluated the performance of small and lightweight L6-compatible antennas, which are expected 
to be used in future applications and are important for high-precision positioning using the L6 correction signal 
in a real environment. We compared small L6-compatible antennas from various perspectives, and evaluated 
the signal reception capability of L6 signals and multipath characteristics through static tests. In the kinematic 
HX-CSX601A
HX-CVX603A
HC976
(a) Kinematic Test #1
(b) Kinematic Test #2
Fixed rate: 91.76% 
Fixed rate: 88.45% 
Fixed rate: 80.43% 
Fixed rate: 76.37% 
Fixed rate: 71.7% 
Fixed rate: 70.27% 
Figure 11.   Comparison of positioning results from each antenna using CLAS in the kinematic test. The green 
dots in the figure indicate the PPP-RTK fixed solution, and the yellow dots indicate the float solution. The lower 
figure shows the horizontal error of each antenna compared to the reference.
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved

> [3 Figure(s)]


|Fixed|rate: 91.7|6%|
|---|---|---|
||||
||||
||||




|Fixed|rate: 88.4|5%|
|---|---|---|
||||
||||
||||




|Fixed|rate: 80.|43%|
|---|---|---|
||||
||||
||||




|Fixed|rate: 76.3|7%|
|---|---|---|
||||
||||
||||




|Fixed|rate: 71.7|%|
|---|---|---|
||||
||||
||||




|Fixed|rate: 70.|27%|
|---|---|---|
||||
||||
||||



<!-- PAGE: 12 -->

12
Vol:.(1234567890)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  | 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
test, we evaluated the accuracy of PPP-RTK using a small and lightweight antenna with CLAS broadcasted by 
the QZSS L6D signal. The results of this study are as follows:
•	 Even GNSS antennas that are catalog-compliant with the L6 signal have variations in the elevation angle-
signal strength characteristics of the L6 signal, and some antennas cannot receive the L6 signal at low eleva-
tion angles. Therefore, each antenna should be evaluated individually to perform high-precision positioning 
using the L6 signals in actual applications.
•	 Small and lightweight GNSS antennas have poor signal strength and multipath characteristics compared to 
surveying antennas. The performance of patch and helical antennas is almost the same for small and light-
weight antennas.
•	 PPP-RTK with QZSS CLAS can provide centimeter-level positioning, even when using small, lightweight 
L6-compatible antennas. This is useful for applications with space and weight limitations, such as drones.
The antenna evaluations in this study provide guidelines for antenna selection when high-precision positioning 
with L6 signals is required for various applications.
Data availability
The datasets generated during and/or analysed during the current study are available from the corresponding 
author on reasonable request.
Received: 8 September 2023; Accepted: 1 December 2023
References
	 1.	 Teunissen, P. J. & Montenbruck, O. Springer Handbook of Global Navigation Satellite Systems Vol. 10 (Springer, 2017).
	 2.	 Leandro, R. et al. Rtx positioning: The next generation of cm-accurate real-time gnss positioning. In Proceedings of the 24th Inter-
national technical Meeting of the Satellite Division of the Institute of Navigation (ION GNSS 2011), 1460–1475 (2011).
	 3.	 Sheridan, K. et al. Terrastar x: Precise point positioning with fast convergence and integrity. In Proceedings of the 32nd International 
Technical Meeting of the Satellite Division of The Institute of Navigation (ION GNSS+ 2019), 1916–1943 (2019).
	 4.	 Hohensinn, R. et al. Low-cost gnss and real-time ppp: Assessing the precision of the u-blox zed-f9p for kinematic monitoring 
applications. Rem. Sens. 14, 5100 (2022).
	 5.	 Kawate, K. et al. Madoca: Japanese precise orbit and clock determination tool for gnss. Adv. Space Res. 71, 3927–3950 (2023).
	 6.	 Miya, M. et al. Centimeter level augmentation service (clas) in japanese quasi-zenith satellite system, its user interface, detailed 
design, and plan. In Proceedings of the 29th International Technical Meeting of the Satellite Division of The Institute of Navigation 
(ION GNSS+ 2016), 2864–2869 (2016).
	 7.	 Gioia, C., Borio, D., Susi, M. & Fernandez-Hernandez, I. The galileo high accuracy service (has): decoding and processing live 
corrections for code-based positioning. In Proceedings of the 2022 International Technical Meeting of The Institute of Navigation, 
1065–1074 (2022).
	 8.	 Betz, J. W. Engineering Satellite-based Navigation and Timing: Global Navigation Satellite Systems, Signals, and Receivers (John Wiley 
& Sons, 2015).
	 9.	 Rao, B. R., McDonald, K. & Kunysz, W. GPS/GNSS Antennas (Artech House, London, 2013).
	10.	 Caizzone, S. et al. Multipath rejection capability analysis of gnss antennas. In Proc. of the 31st International Technical Meeting of 
the Satellite Division of the Institute of Navigation (ION GNSS+ 2018), 3478–3489 (2018).
	11.	 Mader, G. L. Gps antenna calibration at the national geodetic survey. GPS Solut. 3, 50–58 (1999).
	12.	 Araszkiewicz, A. & Völksen, C. The impact of the antenna phase center models on the coordinates in the euref permanent network. 
GPS Solut. 21, 747–757 (2017).
	13.	 Hamza, V., Stopar, B., Ambrožič, T. & Sterle, O. Performance evaluation of low-cost multi-frequency gnss receivers and antennas 
for displacement detection. Appl. Sci. 11, 6666 (2021).
	14.	 Krietemeyer, A., van der Marel, H., van de Giesen, N. & ten Veldhuis, M.-C. High quality zenith tropospheric delay estimation 
using a low-cost dual-frequency receiver and relative antenna calibration. Rem. Sens. 12, 1393 (2020).
	15.	 Hamza, V., Stopar, B. & Sterle, O. Testing the performance of multi-frequency low-cost gnss receivers and antennas. Sensors 21, 
2029 (2021).
	16.	 Poluzzi, L., Tavasci, L., Corsini, F., Barbarella, M. & Gandolfi, S. Low-cost gnss sensors for monitoring applications. Appl. Geomat. 
12, 35–44 (2020).
Table 1.   Comparison of L6 availability, carrier phase ambiguity fixed rate, and positioning accuracy by 
antenna using CLAS in the kinematic test.
HX-CSX601A
HX-CVX603A
HC976
Test #1
L6 availability %
99.92
99.92
99.92
Fixed rate %
91.76
88.45
80.43
Horizontal RMS error cm
3.45
4.06
3.65
Vertical RMS error cm
5.97
7.70
6.42
Test #2
L6 availability %
100
99.92
99.92
Fixed rate %
76.37
71.70
70.27
Horizontal RMS error cm
3.09
4.07
4.62
Vertical RMS error cm
4.27
6.05
7.35
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved

> [1 Figure(s)]


|Col1|Col2|HX-CSX601A|HX-CVX603A|HC976|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Test #1|L6 availability %|99.92|99.92|99.92|
|Test #1|Fixed rate %|91.76|88.45|80.43|
|Test #1|Horizontal RMS error cm|3.45|4.06|3.65|
|Test #1|Vertical RMS error cm|5.97|7.70|6.42|
|Test #2|L6 availability %|100|99.92|99.92|
|Test #2|Fixed rate %|76.37|71.70|70.27|
|Test #2|Horizontal RMS error cm|3.09|4.07|4.62|
|Test #2|Vertical RMS error cm|4.27|6.05|7.35|



<!-- PAGE: 13 -->

13
Vol.:(0123456789)
Scientific Reports |        (2023) 13:21766  | 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-48954-0
www.nature.com/scientificreports/
	17.	 Pesyna, K. M., Heath, R. W., Humphreys, T. E. et al. Centimeter positioning with a smartphone-quality gnss antenna. In Proc. of the 
27th International Technical Meeting of the Satellite Division of The Institute of Navigation (ION GNSS+ 2014), 1568–1577 (2014).
	18.	 Siddakatte, R., Broumandan, A. & Lachapelle, G. Performance evaluation of smartphone gnss measurements with different antenna 
configurations. In Proc. of the International Navigation Conf. (2017).
	19.	 Li, X. et al. Ppp rapid ambiguity resolution using android gnss raw measurements with a low-cost helical antenna. J. Geodesy 96, 
65 (2022).
	20.	 Karasawa, K. et al. Satellite positioning system with active antenna for qzss. In 2021 IEEE 10th Global Conf. on Consumer Electronics 
(GCCE), 65–68 (2021).
	21.	 Suzuki, T., Kubo, N. & Takasu, T. Evaluation of precise point positioning using madoca-lex via quasi-zenith satellite system. In 
Proc. of the 2014 International Technical Meeting of the Institute of Navigation, 460–470 (2014).
	22.	 Zhang, Y., Kubo, N. & Pullen, S. Evaluation of qzss centimeter level augmentation system (clas): Open-sky to urban environments 
and geodetic to low-cost receivers. In Proc. of the 35th International Technical Meeting of the Satellite Division of The Institute of 
Navigation (ION GNSS+ 2022), 2729–2750 (2022).
	23.	 Fernandez-Hernandez, I. et al. Galileo high accuracy service: Initial definition and performance. Gps Solut. 26, 65 (2022).
	24.	 Naciri, N., Yi, D., Bisnath, S., de Blas, F. J. & Capua, R. Assessment of galileo high accuracy service (has) test signals and preliminary 
positioning performance. GPS Solut. 27, 73 (2023).
	25.	 Punzet, S. & Eibert, T. F. Impact of additional antenna groundplanes on rtk-gnss positioning accuracy of uavs. Adv. Radio Sci. 20, 
23–28 (2023).
Author contributions
The author confirms sole responsibility for the following: study conception and design, data collection, analysis 
and interpretation of results, and manuscript preparation.
Competing interests 
The author declare no competing interests.
Additional information
Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to T.S.
Reprints and permissions information is available at www.nature.com/reprints.
Publisher’s note  Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and 
institutional affiliations.
Open Access   This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International 
License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or 
format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the 
Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this 
article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the 
material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not 
permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from 
the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://​creat​iveco​mmons.​org/​licen​ses/​by/4.​0/.
© The Author(s) 2023
Content courtesy of Springer Nature, terms of use apply. Rights reserved

<!-- PAGE: 14 -->

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Terms and Conditions
 
Springer Nature journal content, brought to you courtesy of Springer Nature Customer Service Center GmbH (“Springer Nature”).
 
Springer Nature supports a reasonable amount of sharing of  research papers by authors, subscribers and authorised users (“Users”), for small-
scale personal, non-commercial use provided that all copyright, trade and service marks and other proprietary notices are maintained. By
accessing, sharing, receiving or otherwise using the Springer Nature journal content you agree to these terms of use (“Terms”). For these
purposes, Springer Nature considers academic use (by researchers and students) to be non-commercial.
 
These Terms are supplementary and will apply in addition to any applicable website terms and conditions, a relevant site licence or a personal
subscription. These Terms will prevail over any conflict or ambiguity with regards to the relevant terms, a site licence or a personal subscription
(to the extent of the conflict or ambiguity only). For Creative Commons-licensed articles, the terms of the Creative Commons license used will
apply.
 
We collect and use personal data to provide access to the Springer Nature journal content. We may also use these personal data internally within
ResearchGate and Springer Nature and as agreed share it, in an anonymised way, for purposes of tracking, analysis and reporting. We will not
otherwise disclose your personal data outside the ResearchGate or the Springer Nature group of companies unless we have your permission as
detailed in the Privacy Policy.
 
While Users may use the Springer Nature journal content for small scale, personal non-commercial use, it is important to note that Users may
not:
  
use such content for the purpose of providing other users with access on a regular or large scale basis or as a means to circumvent access
control;
use such content where to do so would be considered a criminal or statutory offence in any jurisdiction, or gives rise to civil liability, or is
otherwise unlawful;
falsely or misleadingly imply or suggest endorsement, approval , sponsorship, or association unless explicitly agreed to by Springer Nature in
writing;
use bots or other automated methods to access the content or redirect messages
override any security feature or exclusionary protocol; or
share the content in order to create substitute for Springer Nature products or services or a systematic database of Springer Nature journal
content.
 
In line with the restriction against commercial use, Springer Nature does not permit the creation of a product or service that creates revenue,
royalties, rent or income from our content or its inclusion as part of a paid for service or for other commercial gain. Springer Nature journal
content cannot be used for inter-library loans and librarians may not upload Springer Nature journal content on a large scale into their, or any
other, institutional repository.
 
These terms of use are reviewed regularly and may be amended at any time. Springer Nature is not obligated to publish any information or
content on this website and may remove it or features or functionality at our sole discretion, at any time with or without notice. Springer Nature
may revoke this licence to you at any time and remove access to any copies of the Springer Nature journal content which have been saved.
 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Springer Nature makes no warranties, representations or guarantees to Users, either express or implied
with respect to the Springer nature journal content and all parties disclaim and waive any implied warranties or warranties imposed by law,
including merchantability or fitness for any particular purpose.
 
Please note that these rights do not automatically extend to content, data or other material published by Springer Nature that may be licensed
from third parties.
 
If you would like to use or distribute our Springer Nature journal content to a wider audience or on a regular basis or in any other manner not
expressly permitted by these Terms, please contact Springer Nature at
  
onlineservice@springernature.com
