<!-- PAGE: 1 -->
Available online atwww.sciencedirect.com
ScienceDirect
AdvancesinSpaceResearch74(2024)5569–5579
www.elsevier.com/locate/asr
Real-time uncombined PPP using BDS-3 PPP-B2b products
with different multi-frequency integrations and refined stochastic model
⇑
Wujiao Dai , Qiang Qi, Lin Pan, Changsheng Cai
SchoolofGeosciencesandInfo-Physics,CentralSouthUniversity,SouthLushanRoad,Changsha410083,China
Received7February2024;receivedinrevisedform15July2024;accepted16August2024
Availableonline22August2024
Abstract
BDS-3geostationaryorbit(GEO)satellitesbroadcastPPP-B2breal-timepreciseproductstosupportreal-timeprecisepointposition-
ing(RT-PPP)withoutdependenceonthegroundnetworkcommunication.SinceallBDS-3satellitescanprovidemulti-frequencysignals,
we investigate the effect of different multi-frequency integrations and the refinement of multi-frequency stochastic model for PPP-B2b
RT-PPP.GiventhattheretrievalofPPP-B2breal-timeprecisecorrectionsreliesontheB1CandB2bfrequencies,thisstudyfirstinves-
tigatesthekinematicuncombined(UC)RT-PPPperformanceoftheB1C/B2bintegrationwithacomparisontotheconventionalB1I/
B3Iintegration.Theresultsindicatethattheconvergencetime(withaconvergencethresholdof20cm)oftheRT-PPPwiththeB1C/B2b
integrationisshortenedby16%,15%,and12%overtheB1I/B3Iintegrationintheeast,north,andupdirections,respectively.Further,
thisstudycomparesthekinematicUCRT-PPPperformanceoftheB1C/B2bdual-frequencyintegration,B1C/B2b/B3Itriple-frequency
integration,andB1C/B2b/B3I/B1I/B2afive-frequencyintegration.Comparedwiththedual-frequencyintegration,thepositioningper-
formanceofthetriple-frequencyintegrationisslightlyimproved.Bycontrast,theperformanceimprovementofthefive-frequencyinte-
grationismoresignificant,whichcanreach6%,32%,and9%fortheconvergencetime,and11%,9%,and6%forthepositioning
accuracyinthreedirections,respectively.Tofurtherenhancethemulti-frequency PPPperformance,arefinedstochasticmodelforthe
BDS-3five-frequencyintegratedPPP-B2bRT-PPPisproposedbytakingtheinconsistencyofsignalqualityamongmulti-frequencysig-
nalsintoaccount.Afterapplyingtherefinedstochasticmodel,theconvergencetimeofthefive-frequencykinematicRT-PPPisshortened
by 10 %, 14 %, and 9 % to 32, 7, and 19 min in east, north, and up directions, respectively. The positioning accuracy (the root mean
square of all the positioning errors excluding the first two hours) of the five-frequency RT-PPP with the refined stochastic model can
reachthe optimal level, which is9.9, 6.5,and 14.0cmin threedirections, respectively.
(cid:1) 2024 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar
technologies.
Keywords: BDS-3;Real-time;Precisepointpositioning;PPP-B2b;Multi-frequencyintegration;Stochasticmodel
1. Introduction igation Satellite System (GNSS) receiver (Malys and
Jensen, 1990; Zumberge et al., 1997; Kouba and He´roux,
Precise point positioning (PPP) is a technique to utilize 2001). Due to its high accuracy, the PPP technique has
precise orbit and clock products to achieve static beenextensivelyappliedtoEarth’scrustdeformationmon-
centimeter-to-millimeter and kinematic decimeter-to- itoring,near-real-timeGPSmeteorology,low-orbitsatellite
centimeter positioning accuracy with a single Global Nav- orbit determination, and precise positioning and naviga-
tion (Zhu et al., 2004; Calais et al., 2006). In the real-
time PPP (RT-PPP), the precise orbits and clock correc-
⇑ Correspondingauthor.
tions can be obtained via the Internet or via the satellite
E-mailaddress:wjdai@csu.edu.cn(W.Dai).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asr.2024.08.051
0273-1177/(cid:1) 2024 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar
technologies.
<!-- PAGE: 2 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch74(2024)5569–5579
link. For the former, the precise products are generally PPP using the PPP-B2b products on kinematic and highly
transmitted to users using the Networked Transport of kinematic platforms, and results indicated that a conver-
Radio Technical Commission for Maritime Services gence time of 28.5 and 12.9 min could be achieved with
(RTCM) via Internet Protocol (NTRIP), such as the BDS-3 only and BDS-3/GPS dual-system, respectively. In
Real-Time Service (RTS) of the International GNSS Ser- addition, Xu et al. (2023) estimated the spatial ranging
vice (IGS). Currently, the orbital correction accuracy can error of each satellite for improving the positioning accu-
reach a centimeter level, while the clock correction accu- racy and reliability of PPP-B2b, and the ship-borne exper-
racy is better than 0.2 ns (Li et al., 2022). However, the iment results showed that the positioning accuracies in
potential Internet connectivity disruptions and network horizontal and vertical directions were improved by 36 %
coverage limitations in remote areas severely hamper the and 19 %, respectively.
applications of the Internet-based RT-PPP. Actually, a suitable stochastic model is important for
To facilitate the RT-PPP application, several constella- parameter estimation in PPP processing (Koch, 1999).
tions, such as Galileo, Quasi-Zenith Satellite System ThemainstochasticmodelsforPPPincludetheaposterior
(QZSS),andBDS-3,haverealizedthebroadcastofprecise modelandtheapriorimodel.Theformermainlyusesthea
products via the satellite link. Specifically, Galileo started posterior residuals to iteratively correct the variances of
the free global High Accuracy Service (HAS) on the E6-B observations at an epoch (Li et al., 2011; Parvazi et al.,
signal on January 24, 2023, with a horizontal accuracy of 2020), which can be well used to obtain the observation
20 cm and a vertical accuracy of 40 cm for the RT-PPP weights among different constellations, but the iterative
after a convergence of 100 s in European coverage area processingusuallycoststoomuchcomputationtimetosuit
(European Union, 2022; EUSPA, 2020; European GNSS forRT-PPP.Incontrast,theapriorimodelutilizessomea
Service Center, 2023). Cabinet Office in Japan developed priori indicators to determine the variance–covariance
anewaugmentationservice,namelymulti-GNSSadvanced matrix of the observations, including the elevation-
orbit and clock augmentation-precise point positioning dependent and carrier-to-noise ratio (C/N ) stochastic
0
(MADOCA-PPP), on September 30, 2022 (Cabinet models (Gardan, 1995; Brunner et al., 1999). Recently,
Office, 2022), which realizes the RT-PPP in Asia-Oceania many scholars have conducted research and expansion on
region by providing GNSS augmentation data via QZSS the two a priori stochastic models (Liu et al., 2024; Yuan
satellites. BDS-3 offered a regional PPP service, known as et al., 2023). However, the weights of observations on dif-
PPP-B2b to users in and around China. Specifically, ferent frequencies were mostly considered equal, and they
BDS-3 broadcasts PPP-B2b signals containing precise did not consider the inconsistency of signal quality among
satellite orbit and clock corrections information to users multi-frequency signals.
through the geostationary orbit (GEO) satellites, enabling In the existing research on PPP-B2b, most scholars
RT-PPP free of charge without reliance on the Internet. selected the B1I/B3I observation integration by default in
Since the release of the interface control document for their RT-PPP implementation. It should be noted that
the PPP-B2b spatial signals, numerous studies have been theopenserviceofBDS-3referstotheB3Ibroadcastephe-
made to evaluate the performance of PPP-B2b products meris, but the calculation of PPP-B2b corrections broad-
and the RT-PPP. Liu (2020) conducted an in-depth analy- cast through the B2b channel must rely on the B1C
sisofthePPP-B2bsignal,optimizingtheACE-BOCmulti- broadcast ephemeris. Thus, for the dual-frequency users,
populational method to capture its signal characteristics. it is preferable to use the B1C/B2b integration to realize
Experimental results revealed horizontal and vertical posi- PPP-B2b-based RT-PPP. In this study, the PPP-B2b-
tioning accuracies of 0.15 and 0.3 m, respectively, with an based RT-PPP performance is evaluated using the B1C/
average convergence time of less than 14 min based on B2bintegrationwithacomparison totheB1I/B3Iintegra-
BDS.Tangetal.(2022)conductedacomprehensiveanaly- tion. In addition, the multi-frequency uncombined (UC)
sis of satellite orbit, clock, and Differential Code Bias PPPperformance based on PPP-B2b isanalyzed using dif-
(DCB) corrections contained in PPP-B2b information. ferent multi-frequency integrations. Because of the incon-
They evaluated the accuracy of the RT-PPP based on sistency of signal quality among multi-frequency signals,
PPP-B2b,demonstratingthatthesimulatedkinematicposi- the observations of different frequencies cannot be simply
tioning accuracy using BDS-3/GPS dual-system is better regarded as equal weights. Therefore, this study further
than2.5cminthenorthdirection,3.5cmintheeastdirec- proposesarefinedstochasticmodelonthebasisofthetra-
tion and 8.5 cm in the up direction after convergence. Liu ditional elevation-dependent stochastic model to improve
etal.(2022)analyzedthepositioningaccuracyofPPP-B2b the positioning performance of the multi-frequency RT-
using data from IGS stations in and around China. The PPP.
results indicated that the PPP-B2b-based PPP can achieve
static centimeter-level and kinematic sub-meter-level posi- 2. PPP-B2b real-time precise corrections
tioning accuracy in China. However, in the boundary area
ofthePPP-B2bservice,thepositioningperformanceissig- The B2b signal broadcast by BDS-3 GEO satellites
nificantly affected by the number of visible satellites. Wu modulates the precise orbit and clock corrections
et al. (2023) conducted comprehensive evaluations of RT- for BDS-3/GPS satellites to enable RT-PPP. The
5570
<!-- PAGE: 3 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch74(2024)5569–5579
correction information primarily encompasses pseudo- where, t is the satellite clock calculated by the B1C
broadcast
random number (PRN), satellite orbit, satellite clock, and broadcast ephemeris, t is the satellite clock after
pre sat clk
DCB correction information. The specific correction correction, and c is the speed of light.
method is provided in the following sections (CSNO, Similarly, the PPP-B2b clock corrections refer to B3I
2019b). signal (Tao et al., 2021), which can’t directly be used in
PPP processing. Therefore, we use the DCB corrections
2.1. Satellite orbit corrections provided by the PPP-B2b products to correct the code
observations on each frequency, so that all of them only
The information type 2 included in the PPP-B2b infor- contain the satellite code hardware delay of B3I signal.
mationarethesatelliteorbitcorrectionsandtheuserrang-
ing accuracy index (URAI). The orbit correction 2.3. DCB corrections
informationreferstothesatellitepositioncorrectionvector
intheradial,tangentialandnormaldirections.Thesatellite Theinformationtype3containedinthePPP-B2binfor-
position vector is first obtained using the B1C broadcast mation is the DCB correction. Each set of information
ephemeris, and then the satellite orbit corrections are used encompassesthecountofsatellitesandtherespectivecount
to correct the position vector. The correction formula is of DCB for each satellite. As these values are variable, the
provided below. DCB correction algorithm involves matching the PRN
X ¼X (cid:2)d ð1Þ through the issue of data PRN (IODP) which comes from
pre orbit broadcast X
the PPP-B2b products. The IODP defines the version of
where X broadcast is the satellite position calculated by the satellite mask and simultaneously presents in PNR mask,
B1C broadcast ephemeris, X pre orbit is the satellite position orbit correction, and DCB correction information. The
aftercorrections,andd X istheorbitalcorrectionvectorcal- specificcorrectionformulaforDCBisprovided inEq.(4).
culated by Eq. (2).
(cid:7)
P ¼P (cid:2)DCB ð4Þ
8 i i i
>>>< e radial ¼ j r rj
where,P
(cid:7)
isthecorrectedcodeobservationsonfrequencyi,
e ¼ r(cid:3)r_ i
>>>: e
c
a
r
l
o
o
s
n
s
g ¼e
jr
c
(cid:3)
ro
r_j
ss (cid:3)e radial
ð2Þ P
co i r
i
r
s
ec
th
ti
e
on
or
o
i
n
gi
f
n
r
a
e
l
q
c
u
o
e
d
nc
e
y
o
i
b
.
s
S
e
p
r
e
v
c
a
i
t
fi
io
ca
n
l
,
ly
a
,
n
t
d
he
D
D
C
C
B
B i
i
c
s
o
t
r
h
r
e
ec
D
tio
C
n
B
s
d ¼½e e e (cid:4)(cid:5)d provided by the PPP-B2b products includes DCB (B1I),
X radial along cross O
DCB (B1C), DCB (B2a) and DCB (B2b). Both the BDS-
where d is the satellite orbit correction vector included in 3 broadcast clock parameters and the PPP-B2b precise
O
the PPP-B2b information, r and r_ are the position and clock offsets refer to the B3I signal. The DCBs mentioned
velocity vectors of the satellites calculated by broadcast above refer to differential code biases between the corre-
ephemeris, e ;e and e are the unit vectors in sponding signal and the B3I signal, such as DCB (B1I)
radial along cross
the radial, tangential and normal directions, respectively. refers to the differential code bias between B1I and B3I.
However, The PPP-B2b products provide the antenna Therefore, we directly subtract the DCB corrections in
phase center (APC) satellite position of the B3I signal for Eq. (4) to maintain the consistent usage of satellite clock
BDS-3, which is different from the center-of-mass satellite offsets.
position provided by IGS products (Tao et al., 2021).
Therefore, we use the ANTenna Exchange format 3. BDS-3 multi-frequency UC PPP model
(ANTEX) file provided by IGS to correct the reference of
the satellite position from B3I signal to the phase center 3.1. Observation model
of each frequency during the UC PPP processing.
Differentiatinginthetreatmentofionosphericdelay,the
commonly employed PPP observation models primarily
2.2. Satellite clock corrections
include the ionospheric-free (IF) combination model and
the UC model. The UC model estimates the ionospheric
Theinformationtype4includedinthePPP-B2bdenotes
delay parameters in the original observation equation,
thesatelliteclockcorrections.Theclockcorrectionsofeach
and thus it brings more parameters to be estimated. The
satellite include IOD Corr and C two parts. IOD Corr is
0 IF combination uses the inter-frequency combined obser-
the version number of the correction information, which
vationstoeliminatethefirst-orderionosphericdelayerrors,
is used to match the version number of the information
but it amplifies the measurement noise. Although the two
type 2 (satellite orbit corrections). C is the clock correc-
0 models are different, their positioning performance is very
tion,whichisvalidintherangeof(cid:6)26:2128m.Thecorrec-
similar in the dual-frequency RT-PPP (Pan et al., 2021).
tionformulaforsatelliteclockerrorsisprovidedinEq.(3).
ItshouldbenotedthatboththeIFandUCcanallowpro-
C cessing more than two frequencies. However, in multi-
t ¼t (cid:2) 0 ð3Þ
pre sat clk broadcast c frequency case, the observation model of the IF becomes
5571
<!-- PAGE: 4 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch74(2024)5569–5579
morediverse,whiletheUConeexhibitsbetterextendibility characteristics, so it can not directly allow integer ambigu-
and flexibility. To facilitate multi-frequency positioning, ity fixing. If need to fix the ambiguity, the PPP ambiguity
this study chooses the UC model for data processing, and resolution (AR) model should be established (Ge et al.,
its observation equations are as follows (Pan et al., 2019), 2008). The parameters to be estimated in the BDS-3
multi-frequency UC PPP model include receiver coordi-
Ps
r;i
¼qs
r
þcdt
r
(cid:2)cdtsþTs
r
þc
i
Is
i
þd
r;i
þds
i
þe
P;i
ð5Þ
nates, receiver clock offsets, ionospheric delay, ZWD,
IFB and phase ambiguities of each frequency. If there are
Ls
r;i
¼qs
r
þcdt
r
(cid:2)cdtsþTs
r
(cid:2)c
i
Is
i
þN
i
þb
r;i
þbs
i
þe
L;i
ð6Þ
n satellites observed at an epoch, then the parameters to
where Ps and Ls are the receiver code and carrier be estimated at that epoch can be expressed as,
r;i r;i h i
phase qffiffi o ffiffi b ffiffiffi s ffiffi e ffiffi r ffiffi v ffiffi a ffiffi t ffiffi i ffi o ffiffiffi n ffiffiffi s ffiffiffiffiffiffi i ffiffi n ffiffiffiffiffiffiffi m ffiffiffiffi e ffiffi t ffiffi e ffiffi r ffiffi s ffiffiffiffiffiffi r ffiffi e ffiffi s ffiffi p ffiffi ectively, and qs r X UC ¼ X cdt (cid:2) r;UC (cid:2) I1 Tr IFBUC;3 (cid:5)(cid:5)(cid:5)IFBUC;i N(cid:2)1 1 (cid:5)(cid:5)(cid:5)N(cid:2)n 1 (cid:5)(cid:5)(cid:5) N(cid:2)1 i (cid:5)(cid:5)(cid:5)N(cid:2)n i
(q¼ ðx (cid:2)xsÞ2þðy (cid:2)ysÞ2þðz (cid:2)zsÞ2) is the geometric
ð8Þ
r r r
range from the satellite to the receiver, ðx ;y ;z Þ and It should be noted that the observation model estab-
r r r
ðxs;ys;zsÞ represent the 3D coordinates of the receiver and lished here is only applicable to BDS single-system case,
satelliteintheEarth-CenteredEarth-Fixed(ECEF)coordi- andsomemodificationsneedtobemadewhenitisapplied
nate system, respectively, cdt and cdts are the clock errors to multi-GNSS combination. The receiver clock offset,
r
of the receiver and satellite, respectively, Ts represents the ionospheric delay, IFB, and ambiguity parameters should
r
slant tropospheric delay, c ¼k2=k2 represents the iono- be extended to incorporate multi-GNSS observations,
spheric delay factor, where i k is i the 1 carrier wavelength, Is while the 3D coordinates of the receiver and the ZWD
i parameters should be maintained.
is the first-order slant ionospheric delay on the first fre-
quency (B1I or B1C), N represents the phase ambiguity,
d r;i and ds i are the code hardware delays of the receiver 3.2. Widely used stochastic model
o an f d th t e he re s c a e t i e v l e li r te a , n b d r;i th a e nd sa b te s i l a li r t e e, th an e d ph e a r s e e pr h e a s r e d n w ts ar th e e de m la e y a s - The commonly used stochastic models in PPP mainly
includetheequalweightmodel,elevationstochasticmodel
surement noises.
and C/N stochastic model. The quality of the stochastic
After applying the PPP-B2b corrections and the other 0
models directly affects the positioning accuracy. Consider-
error corrections that need to be considered in PPP, the
ing that GNSS receivers suffer from the effect of various
BDS-3 multi-frequency UC PPP observation model can
errorsintheprocessofreceivingsatellitesignals,andmost
be expressed as,
8 of these errors are related to the elevation angles of satel-
>>>>>>>>>>>><
p
p 1
2
¼
¼
l
l
(cid:5)
(cid:5)
X
X
þ
þ
c
c
d
d
t
t
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
r
r
;
;
U
U
C
C
þ
þ
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
I
I
1
1
(cid:5)
(cid:5)
c
c
1
2
þ
þ
m
m
(cid:5)
(cid:5)
T
T
r
r
l
s
i
h
te
o
s
w
,
s
n
th
b
ffi
i
ffi
s
ffi
e
ffiffi
l
ffi
s
o
ffi
t
ffiffi
w
u
ffiffiffi
d
ffiffi
(
y
ffi
G
ffiffi
b
ffiffi
c
2
a
ffiffi
h
ffi
r
ffi
o
ffi
d
ffiffiffi
o
a
s
n
e
,
s
1
t
9
h
9
e
5)
e
,
levation-dependent model as
>>>>>>>>>>>>: p l
l
1
2
i ¼ ¼
¼
l l
l
(cid:5) (cid:5)
(cid:5)
X X
X
þ þ
þ
c c
c
d d
d
t
(cid:2)
t
t
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
r r
r
; ;
;
U U
U
C C
C
þ (cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
I I
I
1 1
1
(cid:5) (cid:5)
(cid:5)
c c
c
i 1
2
þ þ
þ
m m
m
(cid:5) (cid:5)
(cid:5)
T T
T
r r
r
þ þ
þ
I
(cid:2)
N
N
(cid:2)
(cid:2)
FB 1
2
UC;i ð7Þ
a
r
w
s i
h
¼
¼
er
4
e
m
,
m
a
a
2
;b
þ
a
¼
s
n
in
d
3
2
m
(cid:3)
m
E
b
s i
,
(cid:4)
a
a
n
re
d E
th
i
e
s th
em
e
p
sa
ir
t
i
e
c
l
a
li
l
te
v
e
a
le
l
v
u
a
e
t
s
i
,
on
ge
a
n
n
e
g
r
l
a
e
ð
l
.
9
ly
Þ
l i ¼l(cid:5)X þcdt r;UC (cid:2)I 1 (cid:5)c i þm(cid:5)T r þN i WiththecompletionoftheBDS-3construction,thefre-
quency number of the BDS observations has increased to
where p and l represent the observation-minus-computed
seven, i.e. B1I, B2I, B3I, B1C, B2b, B2a, and B2a + b
(O-C) code and phase observables in meters, respectively,
and the quality of observations at different frequencies is
l is a unit vector in the line-of-sight direction from the
different. For example, the signal quality of B1C and B1I
receivertothesatellite,X isthe3Dcoordinatesoftherecei-
is worse than that of B2a, B3I and B2b (Zhang et al.
(cid:2)
ver (station), and cdt r;UC is the receiver clock offset esti- 2017). However, the traditional elevation-dependent
mated in the UC model which absorbs the receiver code stochastic model does not distinguish this. In this study,
(cid:2) a refined elevation stochastic model is proposed by taking
hardware delays. I is the estimated first-order slant iono-
1 the signal quality at different frequencies into account.
sphericdelayonthefirstfrequencywhichabsorbstherecei-
vercodehardwaredelays,T isthezenithtroposphericwet
r 4. Refinement of elevation-dependent stochastic model
delay (ZWD), m represents the wet delay projection func-
tion, and IFB UC;i (i(cid:8)3) is the inter-frequency bias (IFB)
In multi-frequency PPP processing, the observations of
onthei-thfrequency,whichonlyappearsinthecodeobser-
(cid:2) different frequencies are usually treated as equal weights
vationequationofthethirdandhigherfrequencies,N rep-
i without taking the inconsistency of signal quality among
resents the estimated ambiguity parameters for each
multi-frequencysignalsintoaccount(Xuetal.,2022).This
frequency which absorbs the code and phase hardware
study optimizes the traditional elevation-dependent
delays of the receiver and satellite and loses its integer
stochastic model from the perspective of signal quality.
5572
<!-- PAGE: 5 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch74(2024)5569–5579
First,thenoiseandmultipathcombinations(MP)foreach where, Dl represents the carrier phase after inter-satellite
frequencyofBDS-3codeobservationsareacquired.Subse- single difference in meters, u and v represent non-
quently, the carrier phase quartic difference is made to reference satellite and reference satellite, respectively. DI
extract the noise for each frequency’s carrier phase obser- and DT are the ionospheric delay and tropospheric delay
vations. Finally, we use the elevation-dependent stochastic after the inter-satellite single difference, respectively. Eq.
model to determine the initial weights of each observation (11) is obtained from the carrier phase inter-satellite single
andthenutilizethecodeMPvaluesandthephasenoisesto difference, eliminating the receiver clock’s influence on the
modify the elevation-dependent stochastic model. carrier phase. Then the inter-epoch triple difference is fur-
thermadeonthephaseresidualstoeliminatetheinfluence
4.1. Assessment of code observation noises oftheotherresidualsonthecarrierphase.Theleftresidual
values only include the phase noise. The quartic difference
MP is obtained from the combination of single- of carrier phase can be expressed as:
frequency code observations and dual-frequency carrier DL¼Dlu;vðtÞ(cid:2)3Dlu;vðtþ1Þþ3Dlu;vðtþ2Þ(cid:2)Dlu;vðtþ3Þ
phase observations, specifically expressed as (Estey and
Meertens, 1999),
ð12Þ
8
>< MP ¼P (cid:2)f2 i þf2 jL þ 2f2 j L where, DL is the quartic difference of the carrier phase
i i f2
i
(cid:2)f2
j
i f2
i
(cid:2)f2
j
j
ð10Þ
observations in meters.
>:¼M (cid:2)f2 i þf2 jm þ 2f2 j m þN þe
i f2(cid:2)f2 i f2(cid:2)f2 j i 4.3. Modification of elevation-dependent stochastic model
i j i j
where,iandjði–jÞdenotetwodifferentfrequencies,which
After obtaining the code MP values and carrier phase
cannot be too close, MP is code MP value, f is the signal
i
noises, they are used to modify the elevation-dependent
frequency, M is the multipath error of the code observa-
stochastic model to assign different weights to the code
tions, and m is the multipath effect of the carrier phase
and phase observations of different frequencies by taking
observations, which has little effect on the MP value due
the B1I frequency as a reference frequency. The modified
toitssmallsizeandisusuallyignored,N containsthephase
stochastic model is expressed as:
ambiguity and the signal delay information, which can be
regarded as a constant in the case of continuous observa- MP
r ¼ B1Ire ð13Þ
tions free of cycle slips. Pi MP Pi
i
From Eq. (10), it is evident that the MP eliminates the DL
influenceofgeometricrangefromsatellitetoreceiver,clock
r
Li
¼
DL
B1Ire
Li
ð14Þ
errors, and atmospheric delay errors. It should be noted i
that the MP values are related to code multipath, which where, re Pi and re Li are the weights of the code and phase
is site-related. However, the IGS stations are usually in observations of each frequency in the elevation-dependent
open environments, where the code multipath effects are stochastic model (by Eq. (9)), MP B1I and MP i are the MP
much limited. Therefore, the MP values can be used as values of the code observations at B1I and the other fre-
animportantindextomeasurethequalityofcodeobserva- quencies,DL B1I andDL i arethenoisesofthephaseobserva-
tions. The MP values primarily include residual phase tions at B1I and the other frequencies, r Pi and r Li are the
ambiguity, multipath errors, and code noises. When the refined variances of code and phase observations of each
ambiguityisremovedasaconstant,theMPvaluesareonly frequency. Specially, we use the elevation-dependent
related to the code multipath and the noise (Estey and stochastic model and the numerical values (a = 4 mm
Meertens, 1999), and then the MP values can be used to
measure the quality of the code observations.
4.2. Assessment of phase observation noises
The carrier phase quartic difference method (Li and
Huang, 2010)isusuallyusedtocalculatethenoisesofcar-
rier phase observations. In this method, inter-satellite
single-differencewhichcaneliminatessomereceiverrelated
errors, including the receiver clock errors and the receiver
hardwaredelays,andinter-epochtriple-differencearemade
using carrier phase observations without cycle slips. The
formula is as follows.
Dlu;vðtÞ¼Dqu;vþDcdts;u;vþDNu;vþDIu;vþDTu;vþDeu;v
l
ð11Þ
Fig.1. Distributionofstations.
5573
<!-- PAGE: 6 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch74(2024)5569–5579
and b = 3 mm) to determine the variance of the observa- SGOC, ULAB, URUM, and WUH2 stations have the
tions of B1I. Although these numerical values may not same GNSS equipment, while the remaining three stations
fully reflect the true noise level of B1I, the marginal differ- correspond to different GNSS equipments.
ences in observation variances caused by them have little TheRT-PPPprocessingstrategiesareshowninTable2.
impact on the accuracy of RT-PPP. In contrast, the ratios For the weight determination strategy, the traditional ele-
of observation variances among different frequencies are vation angle stochastic model is used in sections 5.2 and
more important. 5.3,whiletherefinedstochasticmodelisadoptedinsection
5.4.
5. Results and discussion
5.1. Data sets and processing strategies
Observationdataspanningdaysofyear(DOY)303–309
in 2022 were chosen at seven IGS stations in the Asia-
Pacific region. Their geographical distribution is shown in
Fig.1.TheobservationdataandBDS-3PPP-B2binforma-
tion received by the station at Central South University,
China, were employed to realize simulated kinematic
(static-kinematic) UC RT-PPP, and it is noted that all
the results are calculated in post-processing using RT
settings.
Table 1 presents the GNSS equipments (receiver and
antenna) of the seven stations above. From the table, the
Table1
GNSSequipment(receiverandantenna)foreachstation.
Stations Receiver Antenna
CUSV JAVADTRE_3DELTA JAVRINGANT_DMNONE
GUAM SEPTPOLARX5 JAVRINGANT_DMSCIS
POL2 JAVADTRE_3DELTA TPSCR.G3NONE
Fig. 2. Epoch-wise RMS statistics of kinematic RT-PPP positioning
SGOC JAVADTRE_3 JAVRINGANT_G5TNONE
errors of B1I/B3I and B1C/B2b integrations using the datasets from 7
ULAB JAVADTRE_3 JAVRINGANT_G5TNONE
stations on DOY 303–309, 2022 (the left panel displays the positioning
URUM JAVADTRE_3 JAVRINGANT_G5TNONE
errorsin the firstthreehours ata convergingstage, andthe right panel
WUH2 JAVADTRE_3 JAVRINGANT_G5TNONE
displaysthoseafteracompleteconvergence).
Table2
ProcessingstrategiesforRT-PPPbasedonPPP-B2b.
Items RT-PPPProcessingstrategies
Periodofdata DOY303–309,2022
Observationinterval 30s
Satellitesystem BDS-3(excludingGEOsatellites)
Elevationcut-off 10(cid:3)
Weightstrategy elevationanglestochasticmodelorrefinedstochasticmodel
Estimation Kalmanfilter
Satelliteorbit B1CBroadcastephemeris+PPP-B2borbitcorrections
Satelliteclock B1Cbroadcastephemeris+PPP-B2bclockcorrections
SatelliteDCB PPP-B2bDCBcorrections
Wind-Up Modelcorrection
Relativisticeffects Modelcorrection
Tides CorrectedusingIERSConvention2010,includingpolartides,oceanloading,andSolidEarthtides
PCOandPCV CorrectedusingtheANTEXfileprovidedbyIGS
Troposphericdelay SaastamoinenmodelfordrydelayMappingslantdelaystozenithdelayswithglobalmappingfunction(GMF),
andestimatedasrandom-walk(RW)variablesforwetdelay
Ionosphericdelay EstimatedasRW
Receivercoordinates Estimatedaswhitenoise
Receiverclock Estimatedaswhitenoise
IFB EstimatedasRW
Phaseambiguity Estimatedasfloatconstants
5574
<!-- PAGE: 7 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch74(2024)5569–5579
Fig.3. Epoch-wiseRMSstatisticsofmulti-frequencykinematicRT-PPP
positioning errors using the datasets from 7 stations on DOY 303–309,
2022(theleftpaneldisplaysthepositioningerrorsinthefirstthreehours
ataconvergingstage,andtherightpaneldisplaysthoseafteracomplete
convergence).
Table3
Dual-frequencykinematicRT-PPPperformanceusingB1I/B3IandB1C/
B2bintegrations.
Direction Convergencetime(minute) Positioningaccuracy(cm)
B1I/B3I B1C/B2b B1I/B3I B1C/B2b
East 44.8 37.7 11.6 11.5
North 13.4 11.4 7.3 6.8
Up 26.1 23.0 15.4 15.2
Fig.4. ScatterchartofcodeMPvaluesagainstelevationanglesforeach
frequencyatURUMstationonDOY303,2022.
Table4 areexcluded foreach24-hdatasetduetoavoidtheimpact
Multi-frequencykinematicRT-PPPperformance.
ofexcessivepositioningerrorsduringtheconvergencepro-
Direction Convergencetime(minute) Positioningaccuracy(cm) cess. Then, the performance of RT-PPP is evaluated in
B1C/ B1C/ B1C/B2b/ B1C/ B1C/ B1C/B2b/ terms of the convergence time and the positioning RMS
B2b B2b/ B3I/B1I/B2a B2b B2b/ B3I/B1I/B2a errorsinthreecoordinatedirections.Toclearlyseethedif-
B3I B3I
ference in convergence speed of UC RT-PPP under differ-
East 37.7 37.1 35.5 11.5 11.2 10.2 ent strategies, we divided the error curves (Figs. 2, 3, and
North 11.4 11.5 7.8 6.8 6.8 6.2
6) into two parts with the GPS time 3:00 as the boundary.
Up 23.0 22.5 21.0 15.2 15.1 14.3
5.2. Dual-frequency kinematic PPP-B2b RT-PPP
ThestationcoordinatesprovidedbytheIGSSINEXfile
are used as the coordinate reference to calculate the posi- The B1C/B2b dual-frequency integration is selected for
tioning errors (site-centric coordinates based on the refer- kinematicRT-PPPanditspositioningperformanceiscom-
ence coordinates), and then the convergence time is pared with the traditional B1I/B3I dual-frequency integra-
calculated following a criterion that the positioning errors tion. Fig. 2 shows the epoch-wise RMS statistics of RT-
ofthethree directions (East, North,andUp)at10consec- PPP positioning errors of B1I/B3I and B1C/B2b integra-
utive epochs are less than or equal to 20 cm. Finally, the tions using the datasets from 7 stations on DOY 303–
RMS (root mean square) of positioning errors of the last 309,2022.Thepositioningerrorsatthespecificepochwith
22 h is calculated. That is, the errors of the first two hours the same time spans from the first epoch in the respective
5575
<!-- PAGE: 8 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch74(2024)5569–5579
Table5
RMSstatisticalresultsofcodeMPforeachfrequencyateachstation.
Frequency CodeMP(m) Mean(m) RatiotoB1I
CUSV GUAM POL2 SGOC ULAB URUM WUH2
B1I 0.18 0.24 0.22 0.25 0.22 0.19 0.21 0.216 1.00
B3I 0.07 0.14 0.11 0.20 0.15 0.13 0.15 0.136 0.63
B1C 0.11 0.17 0.12 0.20 0.13 0.10 0.14 0.139 0.64
B2b 0.06 0.13 0.09 0.21 0.12 0.08 0.11 0.114 0.53
B2a 0.07 0.13 0.09 0.14 0.11 0.08 0.13 0.107 0.50
The RMS errors in three directions along with the con-
vergence time at all stations during DOY 303–309, 2022,
were computed, and their mean values are displayed in
Table 3. According to the statistical results, the kinematic
RT-PPP with the B1C/B2b integration performs better
when compared with the B1I/B3I dual-frequency integra-
tion. The convergence time is shortened by 16 %, 15 %,
and12%intheeast,northandupdirections,respectively.
The positioning accuracy has a marginal improvement in
the three directions.
Basedonthestatisticalresults,itisevidentthattheRT-
PPPperformanceusingtheB1C/B2bintegrationsurpasses
that of the B1I/B3I integration. For the convergence time
ofdual-frequencyPPP,theB1C/B2bintegrationhasafas-
ter convergence speed without compromising the position-
ing accuracy than the B1I/B3I integration. Therefore, we
conclude that the RT-PPP performance using the B1C/
B2b integration surpasses that of the B1I/B3I integration.
The reason for this result may be that B1C and B2b, as
the new generation signals of BDS-3, have better anti-
interference performance and higher accuracy (He, 2020).
Thisconclusionoffersanovelfrequencyintegrationoption
forfutureRT-PPPimplementationsbasedonthePPP-B2b
information. Furthermore, given that B1C and B2b are
two essential frequencies for the retrieval of PPP-B2b
real-time precise corrections, dual-frequency receivers can
opt for the B1C/B2b integration directly in the RT-PPP
without the need to configure additional channels for
receiving B1I and B3I signals. This not only help to
improve the RT-PPP performance but also contributes to
cost savings in receiver production.
5.3. Multi-frequency kinematic PPP-B2b RT-PPP
Fig.5. ScatterchartofphasenoisesforeachfrequencyatURUMstation WiththedevelopmentofBDS-3,thenumberoffrequen-
onDOY303,2022. ciesofBDS-3hasincreasedtosix,andthemulti-frequency
PPP has become a main trend in future development. To
sessions for all 24-hour sessions are used to compute the assess the positioning performance of the multi-frequency
epoch-wise RMS statistics. In this figure, the B1C/B2b kinematicRT-PPPbasedon theB1C/B2b integration,this
dual-frequency integration performs better than the tradi- paper analyzes the RT-PPP performance based on PPP-
tional B1I/B3I integration in both the convergence time B2b using different multi-frequency integrations. Fig. 3
and positioning accuracy. The reason for the step changes shows the epoch-wise RMS statistics of kinematic RT-
ofepoch-wiseRMSstatisticsat2:30:00intheeastdirection PPP positioning errors using the datasets from 7 stations
is that the observations are absent after this at a station. on DOY 303–309, 2022, using three different frequency
5576
<!-- PAGE: 9 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch74(2024)5569–5579
Table6
Statisticalresultsofphasenoisesforeachfrequencyateachstation.
Frequency Carrierphasenoise(mm) Mean(mm) RatiotoB1I
CUSV GUAM POL2 SGOC ULAB URUM WUH2
B1I 7.00 5.20 6.30 7.30 6.50 6.70 7.00 6.538 1.00
B3I 6.50 4.80 9.30 8.80 8.00 7.60 8.00 7.488 1.15
B1C 7.60 5.90 6.60 7.60 7.00 7.10 7.60 7.000 1.07
B2b 5.40 5.70 7.00 5.30 4.70 4.60 4.90 5.588 0.85
B2a 6.10 5.60 6.40 6.70 5.00 5.10 5.60 6.050 0.93
Fig.6. Epoch-wiseRMSstatisticsofRT-PPPpositioningerrorswithtraditionalelevation-dependentandrefinedstochasticmodelsusingthedatasets
from7stationsonDOY303–309,2022(theleftpaneldisplaysthepositioningerrorsinthefirstthreehoursataconvergingstage,andtherightpanel
displaysthoseafteracompleteconvergence).
integrations, namely B1C/B2b, B1C/B2b/B3I and B1C/ maticRT-PPPwiththefive-frequencyintegrationissignif-
B2b/B3I/B1I/B2a.Ascanbeseenfromthefigure,theposi- icantly improved by 6 %, 32 %, and 9 % for the
tioning performance of triple-frequency RT-PPP is better convergence time and by 11 %, 9 %, and 6 % for the posi-
than that of dual-frequency one. The convergence time tioning accuracy in east, north and up directions.
and the positioning accuracy of five-frequency RT-PPP
have a significant improvement over the dual-frequency 5.4. Performance of refined stochastic model
and triple-frequency RT-PPP.
Table4presentsthemeanvaluesoftheRMSerrorsand Using the formula in Chapter 4, the MP values of each
the convergence time at all stations during DOY 303–309, frequencyandtheelevationsofeachsatellitearecalculated
2022.Accordingtothestatisticalresults,thekinematicRT- using the observations at seven stations shown in Fig. 1.
PPP positioning performance based on the B1C/B2b/B3I Fig.4showsthescatterplotofcodeMPvaluesforeachfre-
integration is slightly improved when compared with the quency against the satellite elevation angle at URUM sta-
B1C/B2bdual-frequencyintegration.Bycontrast,thekine- tiononDOY303,2022.Itcanbeseenfromthefigurethat
5577
<!-- PAGE: 10 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch74(2024)5569–5579
Table7 By analyzing the noise of code and carrier phase obser-
Five-frequency kinematic RT-PPP performance using traditional eleva- vationsatdifferentfrequencies,itcanbeconcludedthatthe
tion-dependentandrefinedstochasticmodels.
MPvaluesofthecodeobservationsatdifferentfrequencies
Direction Convergencetime(minute) Positioningaccuracy(cm) of BDS-3 have obvious differences. In particular, the new
Traditional Refined Traditional Refined frequenciesB2bandB2ahavebettercodequality,followed
East 35.5 32.1 10.1 9.9 by the B1C and B3I, and the code quality of B1I is the
North 7.8 6.7 6.2 6.5 worst.Intermsofphasenoise,thenoiselevelofthecarrier
Up 21.0 19.1 14.3 14.0 phase has no significant difference at different frequencies.
Therefore, based on the calculated code MP values and
therelationshipbetweenMPvaluesandelevationanglesof carrier phase noises above, the observation weight of each
each frequency is in line with the base law that the MP frequency relative to the B1I frequency can be determined
decreases with the increase of elevation angles. In terms using Eqs. (13) and (14).
of the noise level, the code noise on the B2b and B2a fre- To verify the effect of the refined stochastic model, the
quencies is obviously smaller than that of the other three observations at the stations shown in Fig. 1 during DOY
frequencies. By contrast, the code noise for the B1I fre- 303–309, 2022 are used to carry out kinematic B1C/B2b/
quency is the largest. B3I/B1I/B2a five-frequency UC RT-PPP with the tradi-
Table 5 provides the mean values of the MP RMS at tional elevation-dependent stochastic model and the pro-
each frequency for all stations. From this table, the MP posed refined stochastic model, respectively. Fig. 6 shows
values of the code observations at different frequencies of the epoch-wise RMS statistics of RT-PPP positioning
BDS-3haveobviousdifferences.Specifically,thecodequal- errors with traditional elevation-dependent and refined
ityofthenewfrequencysignalsB2bandB2aisbetter,fol- stochastic models using the datasets from 7 stations on
lowed by the B1C and B3I signals,and the code quality of DOY 303–309, 2022. Following the figure, the proposed
B1I is the worst. Additionally, the code MP values of the refined stochastic model shows a slightly faster conver-
same frequency with different equipment (receiver and gence time.
antenna) are different, while the code MP values of the Table7providesthemeanvaluesoftheRMSerrorsand
samefrequencywiththesameequipmentarealsodifferent. theconvergencetimeforallstationsduringDOY303–309.
So,wecanconcludethattheMPvaluesmaydependonthe According to the statistical results, the proposed refined
configurations of the station. However, we don’t care stochastic model performs better than the traditional
about the exact value of MP value, but rather the ratio elevation-dependent stochastic model in terms of conver-
ofMPvaluesamongdifferentfrequencies.Therefore,when gence time with an improvement of 10 %, 14 % and 9 %
establishing the stochastic model for multi-frequency RT- in the east, north and up directions, respectively. Regard-
PPP, the code observations of different frequencies cannot ing the positioning accuracy, no obvious accuracy
be simply treated as equal weights. Instead, the MP values improvement is found.
of different frequencies are used to modify the elevation-
dependent stochastic model. 6. Conclusions
Using the carrier phase quartic difference method, the
carrier phase noises at each frequency at each station are BDS-3 satellites can broadcast real-time corrections of
calculated. Fig. 5 shows the scatter chart of phase noises theprecisesatelliteorbit,satelliteclock,andDCBthrough
at each frequency at URUM station. It can be seen from PPP-B2b signals.Using these corrections,the RT-PPP can
the figure that the phase noises for the B2b and B2a fre- beachieved.Thispaperinvestigatestheperformanceofthe
quenciesarethesmallest,whilethenoiselevelfortheother kinematic UC RT-PPP based on PPP-B2b from the per-
three frequencies is similar. spective of different multi-frequency integrations, and
The average RMSs of the carrier phase noises at each stochastic model refinement.
frequency of all stations are shown in Table 6. As can be The RT-PPP performance based on the B1I/B3I and
seen from Table 6, there is no significant difference in the B1C/B2b integrations is compared, and results indicate
noise levels for carrier phase observations at different fre- that the performance of the BDS-3 B1C/B2b integration
quencies of BDS-3. Specifically, the carrier phase quality is better than that of the B1I/B3I integration. The conver-
for the new frequencies of B2b and B2a is better, followed gence time in the east, north, and up directions are short-
by the B1C and B1I frequencies, and the carrier phase ened by 16 %, 15 %, and 12 %, respectively, and the
quality of the B3I frequency is the worst. Actually, there positioning accuracies have a slight improvement in three
should be no difference among frequencies as the phase directions. This paper also compares the positioning per-
observation (in cycles) is just the measurement of the car- formance using the B1C/B2b dual-frequency integration,
rierwave.However,therearestillslightdifferencesinphase B1C/B2b/B3I triple-frequency integration and B1C/B2b/
noise (in meters) among different frequencies as shown in B3I/B1I/B2a five-frequency integration. The experimental
Table 6. This is mainly because the wavelength and the results show that the kinematic PPP performance with
anti-interference ability of phase observations at different the B1C/B2b/B3I integration is slightly improved when
frequencies differ from each other. compared with the B1C/B2b dual-frequency integration,
5578
<!-- PAGE: 11 -->
W.Daietal. AdvancesinSpaceResearch74(2024)5569–5579
and the B1C/B2b/B3I/B1I/B2a five-frequency integration EUSPA,2020.Galileohighaccuracyservice(HAS)infonote.European
achieves a significant improvement by 6 %, 32 %, and GNSSAgency.
Gardan, G., 1995. A comparison of four methods of weighting double-
9%inconvergencetimeandby11%,9%,and6%inposi-
differencePseudorangemeasurement.Trans.TasmanSurveyor1,60–
tioning accuracy in three directions, respectively.
66.
The code MP and carrier phase noise are evaluated. Ge,M.,Gendt,G.,Rothacher,M.,etal.,2008.ResolutionofGPScarrier-
Analysis results show that the noise of the code observa- phase ambiguities in Precise Point Positioning (PPP) with daily
tions at different frequenciesis quite different. The average observations.J.Geod.82(7),389–399.
He,Y.(2020).QualityAnalysisofSignalforBDS-3BasicSystem.In:Sun,
MP values of the signals of B1I, B3I, B1C, B2b, and B2a
J., Yang, C., Xie, J. (Eds.) China Satellite Navigation Conference
are 0.216, 0.136, 0.139, 0.114, and 0.107 m, respectively,
(CSNC)2020Proceedings:VolumeI.CSNC2020.
and the phase noise at each frequency has no significant Koch,K.R.,1999.Parameterestimationandhypothesistestinginlinear
difference. Based on this conclusion, a refined stochastic models.Springer,Heidelberg.
model is proposed by taking the MP and phase noise into Kouba, J., He´roux, P., 2001. Precise point positioning using IGS Orbit
andclockproducts.GPSSolut.5(2),12–28.
account. Taking B1I as the reference frequency, different
Li,B.,Ge,H.,etal.,2022.Comprehensiveassessmentofreal-timeprecise
weights are assigned to the observations of different fre-
productsfromIGSanalysiscenters.Satell.Navig.3,12.
quencies. The assigned weights are inversely proportional Li, B., Shen, Y., Lou, L., 2011. Efficient estimation of variance and
to the MP values and the phase noises. The experiment covariance components: a case study for GPS stochastic model
results indicate that the five-frequency kinematic UC RT- evaluation.IEEETrans.Geosci.RemoteSens.49(1),203–210.
Li, Z., Huang, J., 2010. GPS Surveying and Data Processing. Wuhan
PPPwiththerefinedstochasticmodelcanimprovethecon-
UniversityPress,Wuhan,inChinese.
vergencetimeby10%,14%,and9%ineast,north,andup
Liu, C., 2020. Design and implementation of a BDS precise point
directions when compared with the traditional elevation- positioningservice.Navigation67(4),875–891.
dependent stochastic model, respectively. The convergence Liu,P.,Ling,K.V.,etal.,2024.Optimalselectionofelevation-dependent
time and positioning accuracy of BDS-3 five-frequency stochastic models for real-time PPP with GPS/Galileo/BDS. Adv.
SpaceRes.73(9),4571–4583.
kinematic PPP-B2b UC RT-PPP can reach 32, 7, and
Liu,Y.,Yang,C.,Zhang,M.,2022.ComprehensiveanalysesofPPP-B2b
19 min, and 9.9, 6.5, and 14.0 cm in the three directions,
performanceinChinaandsurroundingareas.RemoteSens.14,643.
respectively. Malys,S.,Jensen,P.A.,1990.GeodeticpointpositioningwithGPScarrier
beat phase data from the CASA UNO experiment. Geophys. Res.
Lett.17(5),651–654.
Declaration of competing interest
Pan,L.,Gao,X.,etal.,2021.Performanceassessmentofreal-timemulti-
GNSS integrated PPP with uncombined and ionospheric-free com-
Theauthorsdeclarethattheyhavenoknowncompeting binedobservables.Adv.SpaceRes.67(1),234–252.
financialinterestsorpersonalrelationshipsthatcouldhave Pan,L.,Zhang,X.,Liu,J.,2019.AcomparisonofthreewidelyusedGPS
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. triple-frequency precise point positioning models. GPS Solutions 23,
121.
Parvazi, K., Farzaneh, S., Safari, A., 2020. Role of the RLS-VCE-
Acknowledgements estimatedstochasticmodelforimprovementofaccuracyandconver-
gence time in multi-GNSS precise point positioning. Measurement
165,1–21.
This work was supported by the National Natural
Tang, C., Hu, X., Chen, J., et al., 2022. Orbit determination, clock
Science Foundation of China (grant no. 42388102) and
estimationandperformanceevaluationofBDS-3PPP-B2bservice.J.
Department of Natural Resources of Hunan Province Geod.96,60.
(grant no. HNGTCH-2023-05). Tao,J.,Liu,J.,Hu,Z.,etal.,2021.InitialAssessmentoftheBDS-3PPP-
B2bRTScomparedwiththeCNESRTS.GPSSolut.25,131.
Wu, P., Lou, Y., Zhang, W., et al., 2023. Evaluation of real-time
References
kinematicpositioningperformanceoftheBDS-3PPPserviceonB2b
signal.GPSSolut.27,192.
Brunner, F.K., Hartinger, H., Troyer, L., 1999. GPS signal diffraction Xu,W.,Yan,C.,Chen,J.,2022.PerformanceevaluationofBDS-2/BDS-3
modelling:thestochasticSIGMA(cid:2)dmodel.J.Geod.73,259–267.
combined precise time transfer with B1I/B2I/B3I/B1C/B2a five-
CabinetOffice,GovernmentofJapan,2022.TrialserviceofMADOCA- frequencyobservations.GPSSolut.26,80.
PPPhasnowstarted[EB/OL]. Xu, X., Nie, Z., Wang, Z., et al., 2023. An improved BDS-3 PPP-B2b
Calais, E., Han, J., DeMets, C., 2006. Deformation of the North positioningapproachbyestimatingsignalinspacerangeerrors.GPS
American plate interior from a decade of continuous GPS measure- Solut.27,110.
ments.J.Geophys.Res.111,B06402. Yuan,H.,Zhang,Z.,He,X.,etal.,2023.MultipathmitigationinGNSS
CSNO,2019b.BeiDounavigationsatellitesystemsignalinspaceinterface precise point positioning using multipath hierarchy for changing
control document-precise point positioning service signal PPP-B2b, environments.GPSSolut.27,193.
ChinaSatelliteNavigationOffice. Zhang, X., Wu, M., et al., 2017. Initial assessment of the COMPASS/
Estey,L.,Meertens,C.,1999.TEQC:theMulti-PurposeToolkitforGPS/ BeiDou-3:new-generationnavigationsignals.J.Geod.91,1225–1240.
GLONASSData.GPSSolut.3,42–49. Zhu,S.,Reigber,C.,Konig,R.,2004.IntegratedadjustmentofCHAMP
European GNSS Service Centre, 2023. Galileo high accuracy service GRACEandGPSdata.J.Geod.78(1–2),103–108.
servicedefinitiondocument(HASSDD)(Issue1.0). Zumberge, J., Hefin, M., Jeferson, D., Watkins, M., Webb, F., 1997.
European Union, 2022. Galileo High Accuracy Service signal-in-space PrecisepointpositioningfortheefficientandrobustanalysisofGPS
interfacecontroldocument(HASSISICD),Issue1.0. datafromlargenetworks.J.Geophys.Res.B3(102),5005–5017.
5579
